**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** All right, well, welcome back, everybody. The first episode of the early days of Ethereum actually got quite good critical reception on LinkedIn and Twitter. I have a total of nine YouTube subscribers now, which I think is not so bad for a first video. And there have been a few people who reached out, who we've known a long time who really appreciated the content. One of them called it you know, essential viewing. So anyway, we're back for another episode, so remind everybody. I'm KIERAN James Lubin, CEO of BlockApps, here with my co founders, Victor. Do you want to introduce yourself quickly?

**[00:24] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, okay. I'm Victor Wong, co founder and chief product officer of Block Apps.

**[00:31] SPEAKER_02:** I'm James Hermos DIA or Jim, CTO and founder, co founder of BlockApps.

**[00:40] SPEAKER_00:** All right, thank you. And so I believe where we left off. So I can't watch video of myself, so I forget exactly how we ended the last episode, but I believe we pretty much ended with the Ethereum launch. And there were some things we left out even prior to launch that we can kind of backtrack to a little bit and then go forward to all of the kind of after-launch activity. So with that said, maybe I'll hand it to Victor to talk about the first consensus Dapathon, which was June 2015, I believe.

**[01:13] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so that was, I think, the first actual hackathon building what, in those days were known as dapps. I guess some people still call it, but that seems to go out of favor with blockchain applications. So the first idea was to really try to build blockchain applications directly on Ethereum. And that was in the first consensus office, which was like a very small co working space in Greenpoint, I.

**[01:42] SPEAKER_00:** Think it was water in. It was called Green desks, maybe green ducks.

**[01:48] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's right.

**[01:50] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it's right next to the modern day Domino park, maybe a block away from there or so.

**[01:57] SPEAKER_00:** Exactly. Yeah, that's right. So and it of course, Domino park did not exist at that time. In fact, Domino park went up really quickly and took me by surprise. I like looked up one day and there was like a big kind of well manicured park there.

**[02:14] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, well, they kind of walled it off and so it just was like, I don't know, I thought it was like an abandoned site. And then one day all of a sudden the wall was gone and there was a beautiful park.

**[02:25] SPEAKER_01:** So at that event, you know, which was I think two months, two to three months before the actual launch of Ethereum, I. I Will say not. The concepts were really interesting. People were coming up with and it was mostly, I think, interns that were interning over that summer. And consensus at this point was only like maybe 20 people at max.

**[02:47] SPEAKER_00:** 20 or 30.

**[02:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was really, really small. And you know, some great concepts came up. But like even with the stuff we built, we realized pretty quickly that no one could build anything in a short period of time. Like very basic stuff, like reading a variable off the blockchain was kind of impossible. Like you could read the state off the blockchain, all this kind of stuff. So that kind of led into everything building in those days were incredibly hard. And that led into so we decided at that event we were going to do a bigger hackathon. And that became the second consensus Dappathon, which kind of coincided with the launch of Ethereum. And it was us, you know, the Java client, which I think was called Ethercap at that time, and like other tools that were kind of combined together. But what was really interesting about that one was you know, it was bigger. Like I think the first one we had like six participants. The other one we had like close to 30. And but it introduced a lot of ideas that would become more developed pretty quickly. Like the winner was a gamefi app. Like it really had that element of tokenized gameplay. There was a decentralized social app, I think, called Truther or something. Some something like that. And then there was like a traceability supply chain app in those early days. And that kind of all coincided with the launch of Ethereum.

**[04:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So okay, and this so you're talking about the second one.

**[04:20] SPEAKER_01:** I'm talking about the second one.

**[04:23] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, the second one. Also, the offices had shifted. So we had our consensus, which we were kind of working as a part of at that time, had moved to a much larger office in Bushwick, which is I believe they still have a presence there though they've gone mostly remote. I remember there was like a horse Lineage app. Yeah, pretty interesting, you know, um and we ended up actually hiring a couple people who participated in the hackathon. But that one was open to externals right so that was the big difference. And it actually was quite well attended. The room, I think, never had the greatest air conditioning but it was really quite hot in there if I recall.

**[05:13] SPEAKER_01:** I think it was two days. And yeah, like the air conditioning thing so we moved into that space to have the hackathon because consensus was playing because they had outgrown that co working space already and so we moved into that space which can you know was a reasonably sized room. Like you could probably get 80 to 100 people in that room right but yes, the air conditioning was terrible and we had to frantically we only realized this after we got into the room so we had to like get those air conditioning units in place before a ton of people showed up because yeah we were sweating when there were only like five people in the room.

**[05:46] SPEAKER_00:** These were the scrappy days. Manually configuring air conditioning I think the amount of furniture assembly that you do is like a good proxy for you are in your startup journey.

**[05:58] SPEAKER_01:** There was a lot of furniture. I mean, we basically it was an empty room when we moved in there and I think we moved in there a day or two before the hackathon actually started so get everything running.

**[06:12] SPEAKER_00:** And was this to sort of commemorate the launch, I think, or was it like right before the launch?

**[06:18] SPEAKER_01:** It was. It was, it was right. It actually you know if you recall at the time we didn't know when the launch would be like the dates were always shifting right and we just said we kind of arbitrarily chose like we wanted to actually synchronize it with the launch but because it was because we couldn't know exactly when the launch was and even when they declared the date it was still a little bit vague. Like, we were like is that going to actually happen? So we had to arbitrarily choose the date and they more or less what was the right date? I think it was off by maybe a day or two.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_00:** Jim, I might have asked you this last episode but I'll ask again. Do you remember one trying to predict the launch and could you explain how And two there was some complicated mechanism for how the launch would actually happen because it's hard for a decentralized group to decide on a launch time. I can't remember that at all.

**[07:13] SPEAKER_02:** You were mentioning it in the last video and I didn't remember this but I don't doubt it sounds correct you were saying we were looking through the Git commits at the time we were.

**[07:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, you made this plot. It was like commits by day and as like the commits and you like extrapolated it forward. I think probably got within a couple days of the launch date but okay so I have to yeah I still don't know how they like set the clock on the first block so speak maybe we can like dig this up there was something they did and that.

**[07:45] SPEAKER_02:** We had probably in our DMs. I wish I thought to look between the first and second video to find the actual discussion that we had Maybe the graph is in there.

**[07:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah, that's very funny. The slack is a treasure trove of interesting things. All right so yeah so it launched and I kind of felt like there was a sort of. And then what going on you know it took a little time for things to get going and you know this the reality of a new platform you sort of get it out there you see what people do you learn from it and you know it took a minute for the activity to kick in.

**[08:24] SPEAKER_01:** Jim.

**[08:26] SPEAKER_02:** I remember like like a lot of people around us at the time had been buying a lot of pre sale ether beforehand and so the day it came out I think they were expecting it to have a huge jump in value immediately. And when when you know a couple weeks had gone by and it was only still like 20 cents an ether or so I remember people around us were kind of like some of the people there were like oh this thing was a flop it's never going to go anywhere.

**[08:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it's just psychologically yeah the expectations were super high. There was this concept floating around consensus of day one dapps like you had to be ready right for the launch because you know it was a land grab and things were going to the moon and it turned out to not quite be obviously again smashing success but yeah the price is like under a dollar for a little bit and then around a dollar for like a while I believe. And I did want to mention so I had to look this up so the first ico whatever you want to call it that was on Ethereum obviously Ethereum did its own crowd sale but it was like you know they took in bitcoin and there was it was something like 2000 ether to one bitcoin at the time which I believe at the time was like 20 or 30 cents and then it had gone up to a dollar on launch which is already a pretty good return you know but that is what it is. The first ICO apparently was Augur. And I knew the Augur guys a little bit. I was digging through the Crypto Economicon videos. I believe one or two of them presented or run panels at Crypto Economicon for folks who are listening to this. Crypto Economicon was a conference that we had in January 2015 that involved a lot of the people who then including Vitalik and some of the other Ethereum folks, then subsequently created really big and interesting mostly layer one projects in the Ethereum space but others as well. So the videos are actually up I tweeted a couple of them but there was apparently I think I created a YouTube channel like in 2015 and uploaded all those so check those out if that's of interest. So Augur was the first I guess of the prediction markets platforms. There since have been a couple new ones that have popped up that seem to be popular. There was also this sort of competing project called Truthcoin. And I was kind of confused about how the two related to each other. I think there was no formal relation though I remember meeting up with this guy named Matt Liston I met who I checked his LinkedIn he's been at a couple different places so I think Augur Maybe we should look up who actually founded Augur. So Jeremy Gardner I've known over the years and he I met him in San Francisco with Vitalik because Vitalik was staying at what was termed at the time the Crypto castle. And you know it's kind of what you would imagine sort of like a co working co living crypto space for and not everyone there was working on Augur they were all working on different things kind of common thing to do.

**[12:05] SPEAKER_01:** I think if you hear the term Crypto castle now people would imagine an actual castle say you know what you're describing which is more like a dormitory.

**[12:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, it was more like a dorm. I mean, it was nice, nice little house. I can't remember. It might have been like adjacent to the Mission in San Francisco and so Vitalik would stay there sometimes Joey Krug probably met two or three times over the years I'm not even sure if I ever met Jack Peterson. So those are the three founders of Augur. So I guess they had you know they were good friends with Vitalik and or just sort of had realized early on that would be easier to develop on Ethereum than it would be to try to do something with Bitcoin which was kind of the predominant suggestion at the time but they did the first on Ethereum crowd fund like I guess right after launch the Wikipedia is saying August 2015 which is really, really early. I don't know if I believe this Wikipedia page. It says soon after the platform launched users had created the death pools or assassination markets on famous people so back in 2015 every discussion about blockchain eventually led both to prediction markets and then this sort of uncensorability you can't shut it down would lead then to assassination markets assassination markets being you predict you bet on the day someone dies and then someone takes the other side of that bed kills them and collects on it. So apparently there actually were assassination markets created on Augur according to this Wikipedia page I'm yeah I have to look into that I'm a little bit dubious but in any case I guess Augur then blazed the trail sort of after Ethereum did with its successful crowd sale for the wave of ICOS that came later. But yeah so Truthcoin was also this competing project. I just remember meeting up with Matt at like a Berkeley coffee shop and talking about both Augur and Truthcoin had some sort.

**[14:09] SPEAKER_01:** Of machine learning slightly computer science graph theoretic way of determining what the truth was so you take a bunch of votes from a bunch of people but then determine the principal components of how the voting is then extract the truth from there. So it sounded like very high end math mechanistic which is very common of the space every crypto has a lot of these like and I was in the math department at Berkeley a lot of these like mathematician types who like kind of came in and wanted to create like really complicated schemes and mechanisms and all that sort of stuff that had provable theoretical properties for something interesting about you know this space. But yeah so so they must have launched it like right away. That's very interesting.

**[14:50] SPEAKER_00:** So should we go on to Devcon 1? Which I guess I can talk about. So kind of concurrently while all this is happening we started to work a bunch so consensus had a business development team a little bit of a mix of marketing BD actual sales you know etc that was starting to generate interest from big companies in the technology so you know for us ourselves we definitely worked with companies far more than sort of the crypto public for most of the history of the company still don't really work with the crypto public today. But consensus was kind of conflicted on this front so they had sort of pure blockchain native project and eventually in big numbers they also had an enterprise arm which is really more consulting oriented although they kind of ended up sort of backfilling what they saw demand for with products at times but in any case the BD folks were reaching out to everybody and they actually got a fair bit of interest from Microsoft. And I think Microsoft had already been kind of watching the Ethereum revolution and seeing it as something interesting the new front of the cloud war perhaps and so know we got to working with them and actually maybe for the technical part of this I could kind of transition but basically so consensus had a couple you know preferred projects which had the low level like the blockchain client itself infrastructure that could be deployed on cloud platforms and maybe yeah so that ended up being basically us and the Haskell folks. Vic do you want to take any I think you were saying before.

**[16:28] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, sure. So like like they so they were interested in kind of being able to deploy a one of the clients that we had you know we had the Haskell client and then the Java folks actually more interested in the Java folks Wait I should take a step back here just mentioning that Devcon 1 almost didn't happen if you recall right because it was in this low period and the Ethereum foundation was kind of running out of money because this is why the launch had to happen when it happened and in that low period they were still trying to preserve a lot of cash and so it almost didn't happen and I remember a lot of people inside Consensus were like no like we have to like bring this up and make an event out of this you know like I think Andrew Keys was leading the charge in that really saying like we got to do this and then this Microsoft thing kind of bundled into that right so it was us and the Java client. And my background was like you know in my previous company I had tried to work with Microsoft in building apps when they had their first mobile platform and it took me like six months to get a meeting and I had a cousin who was like a VP at Microsoft so it was really hard. So it was amazing to me that they were just coming to us and they wanted to launch something with us in two months. And I think at that point we decided okay this is a huge opportunity we're going to drop everything and focus on that launch which turned out to be the launch of Blockchain as a service But oddly enough the Java guys started and then they just kind of faded away like they they weren't really interested in kind of pursuing it. They just had other things going on so we we like went over it so by the time Devcon 1 happened the only thing that was working was you know our client on it was ready on the cloud you could download it and you could start building on it right away and I remember like we we started to get like downloads immediately people started to get you know people using it immediately but that's also in that run up that was like when kind of we realized and Microsoft realized if we're going to make this as a developer tool it can't you know connect to the public Ethereum network because people wouldn't be able to get Ether at that point there weren't really that many exchanges or anything to go on so we were that's kind of how we have created like private Ethereum you know and private enterprise what what became known as private Ethereum or enterprise Ethereum. So that that kind of all led up and then the launch itself in London when we got up with Microsoft I think people were shocked that Microsoft.

**[19:23] SPEAKER_00:** Was into it, you know so I just looked that up and didn't have in our little outline but I I had forgotten about this so I think Coinbase listed ether like mid-2016 right I'm seeing May 24 2016.

**[19:37] SPEAKER_01:** So

**[19:38] SPEAKER_00:** And I guess like Kraken was the popular exchange at the time you know.

**[19:42] SPEAKER_01:** I think it was Poloniex.

**[19:45] SPEAKER_00:** Sorry, you're right yeah Poloniac still exists.

**[19:48] SPEAKER_01:** And I just remember there was like the chat function on Poloniex. Like man like that was like crazy. Like that was Discord before there was discord.

**[20:00] SPEAKER_00:** Oh wait hold on Circle bought it maybe and then it seems to have shut it down anyway I'm confused by all this but yeah so it was like it was sketchy for sure there was like a whale chat box I never really used it but I would like to see it on people's computers and all that sort of thing. It was it was difficult to get it in and out of Ether for a while Jim are you gonna say something

**[20:18] SPEAKER_02:** I'm just kind of remembering back then remind me because I'm sort of like not sure if I've got this right But I sort of I think maybe you're downplaying the Java thing a little bit I think if I remember right Microsoft guys were pretty mad at that time Am I misremembering that

**[20:34] SPEAKER_01:** No, you're not. They they they Well the thing is they really want something that they could pitch to companies and you know like just companies use Java right so they were like really like And so like when we kind of like were like like we just dropped everything and just focused on that And I remember like we sort of had the internal mantra like we gotta get on stage and be able to write a DAP in like 30 seconds. Like that was our internal mantra.

**[21:05] SPEAKER_02:** They had like pre announced something or something and then the Java guys sort of disappeared or something

**[21:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah they pre announced that you know they were going to show like the Java client and the Haskell client and we were like this we were like the runner up. Like they were like I think they kind of accepted us because we were willing to work really hard and the Java got like I think they knew that they needed a backup.

**[21:30] SPEAKER_02:** The other thing I I remember about Microsoft is that there was a little bit of like tension within there because there were the they were just launching Azure at that time and at the same time they had blockchain people and the blockchain people really wanted to focus on the blockchain side of it and the Azure people wanted to like use this as a way to promote the new platform. So so there was always a little bit of friction within.

**[21:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah I mean like I remember like I think there you know Marley Gray was really driving those efforts inside Microsoft at the time and KO Teeter like they were like really really pushing it And I remember like they were trying to get people in the room to talk to us some of them wouldn't even go in the room. I mean it was probably like you said they were launching Azure so that's a huge project I'm sure they were just busy with other stuff but we spent a lot of time in their New York office I remember we were like going there all the time.

**[22:18] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I'm seeing The Azure launches 2010 I checked it But it did feel much more nascent than it is today Like Amazon got out AWS got out there and like took the whole market and then Azure was kind of like in a catch up mode. But I think it might have even like exceeded AWS revenues at some point.

**[22:35] SPEAKER_02:** They were running around one of the conferences I Can't remember which one handing out free passes to or to everyone

**[22:41] SPEAKER_01:** It was that conference DEFCON 1

**[22:44] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[22:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah they were like handing it out and that's why they wanted to make sure we were on their marketplace so like they could hand out this free pass and you could get the our client up and running and start building something right away And that was like a revelation to a lot of people I remember like dozens of companies were like starting in that first week their

**[23:06] SPEAKER_02:** Devious plan worked on us that we grabbed a whole bunch of free passes and then a year later we were like giving them like 10,000 a month to stay on.

**[23:14] SPEAKER_01:** It definitely works but I get you

**[23:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah

**[23:17] SPEAKER_01:** But I don't know if you remember like the day after the Microsoft announcement there was a spike in the price and we were like I think we just did that.

**[23:28] SPEAKER_00:** The price You mean the Microsoft stock price

**[23:31] SPEAKER_01:** No no no. I meant the Ethereum price.

**[23:34] SPEAKER_00:** I think it was both actually yeah I think memory of the Microsoft stock price like slightly ticking.

**[23:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah I think they up and we were like hey I think we actually did that

**[23:45] SPEAKER_00:** The Ethereum price. Check it out It's hard to see the price range is so funny

**[23:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah because the prices

**[23:53] SPEAKER_00:** Oh okay So it's interesting right So So DEFCON's like December right Yeah something like that. It's around a dollar yeah there it is ticking up like and I think we definitely got calls related to the Microsoft announcement into January.

**[24:11] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah for sure

**[24:13] SPEAKER_00:** So we probably had something to do with it Yeah you never know really what's causing price action

**[24:18] SPEAKER_02:** But I I'm joking but I just remember like the mentality within was that until it was up to 20 people thought it was a flop and somehow when it hit 20 everybody around me all of a sudden got really excited then.

**[24:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah the average person you know buys high sells low So yeah

**[24:35] SPEAKER_01:** That's

**[24:36] SPEAKER_00:** That's pretty successful at 20 and it was still low Okay so moving along kind of on the back of the enterprise announcement Sorry the Microsoft announcement we started to get customers and a lot of it was like enterprises that were fairly early in their journey and you know wanted just some advice on blockchain technology Some of them were actually ready to implement something I don't know Vic you took a whole lot of phone calls you know

**[25:07] SPEAKER_01:** Oh man Yeah you know

**[25:09] SPEAKER_00:** Do you want to comment on any of that

**[25:11] SPEAKER_01:** I mean it was kind of amazing Now the numbers in relative size seem pretty small but in the first couple months we went from zero to dozens of companies calling us and the amazing thing to me was they had actually tried our software they had played around and I remember over and over people were like oh you know like we've been working on a blockchain project for the last two years and haven't been able to build anything and now we can do something Right so I remember like we were getting them from financial companies and like you know resource company and mining companies and it was like all across the spectrum of people trying things because I don't think they really knew what they wanted to do but they wanted an easy way to get in and for the first time they had that.

**[26:01] SPEAKER_00:** Gotcha. Do you remember So I believe I'm trying to keep this straight so I remember the Project Slocket was sort of being marketed at devcon one but I believe it's a lot of the same people as the Dao And do you remember Like I think they But I can't I'm having a hard time keeping it straight.

**[26:18] SPEAKER_01:** So Slock It was this sort of IoT kind of strange thing that you could unlock a lock. But they it was structured around what actually became the dao like they I think they invented the concept not the concept but I think they practically created a DAO in order to their end this lock and then they realized well you know we don't actually need the lock Like the DAO is the most important thing and the lock the actual lock thing is not that interesting So yeah it was 100% the same people like they were introducing both ideas at the same time.

**[26:54] SPEAKER_00:** So let me transition into the dao part I'm going to go slightly out of order here so Victor what was the dao

**[27:03] SPEAKER_01:** So the DAO was basically it was kind of like a investment fund on the Ethereum blockchain Right. So basically people would put like money into this contract and this contract would basically fund the goal of it was it would fund different projects but it started to like consume a huge amount of you know the overall ether supply I think it was as high as like 20 or 25% of the entire ether supply got locked up into this contract.

**[27:31] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I'm looking on the Wikipedia right now So the part of the reason I thought of it in this sequence is like looking at the price action Part of it is that the supply extant ether supply went down because Okay so as of May 2016 the DAO had attracted nearly 14% of all ether tokens issued to date. So they ran a crowd sale and crowd sale raised $34 million 34 million by May 10th 2016 more than 50 by May 12 over 100 by May 15. So sometimes the dynamics of these ICOs this is one thing One it's kind of crazy but like one thing that blockchain seem to do that are really difficult to do with other technologies is to have this sort of really large scale collaboration and in this case to pool capital basically So I suppose the Some sort of virality going on People are talking about the DAO and you just see this like enormous movement of funds sort of overnight and you know so okay by the They end up holding by May 21st 2016 over $150 million in ether from over 10,000 people. Which is about according to the article about 14% of all ether tokens issued at that time.

**[28:39] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah

**[28:40] SPEAKER_00:** Okay so it was really fast right Like it took everybody's surprise I remember I think I had a meeting the enterprise folks at Consensus had set up with I'm gonna say the people at BVVA forgetting last names but I think it was with like Scarlet and Carlos. I don't think you went to this one Vic I think you were in town But they were just like it just caught everyone's attention It was crazy You know and they were we were talking a bit about like operational use cases for the bank But then it was also like you know there was a sense that like this is where the future is Like the money just moved you know like there were no really heavy subscription agreements and you know all that sort of thing And you know it was also a cautionary tale of what was to come over the next couple years Yeah So by June people discovered that you could exploit the DAO to siphon off the funds Do you remember anything about that beyond you know it was crazy

**[29:31] SPEAKER_01:** So so there were So you had all the supply locked into this contract and I think the hack was like Yeah so there was this massive race between There was a flaw in the contract logic and because it's immutable the smart contract couldn't be changed Right. And when people realized there was this massive race between the people who were trying to extract the money out of the contract and the people who actually worked on the DAO itself So it was like this But the people who were successful at kind of extracting the money pulled out a lot of it Like I think I don't remember the number but I think it was like a huge amount of the value They were able to pull that out.

**[30:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah

**[30:17] SPEAKER_01:** Now the ironic thing was that it got pulled out and put into an account and everyone knew where it went because you know everything on the blockchain is completely transparent but no one could do anything about it Like they couldn't take the money out And so the money was just sitting there basically That got like It was like it got stolen and left on the side of the street or something And no one knew what to do about this situation.

**[30:46] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah yeah And so okay I'm kind of looking back on it So it was yeah it blew up and it also caused the creation to at this time and we had to implement this in our software a hard fork debate because So it's pretty early It's like less than a year after Ethereum launched Probably a lot of the big ether holders participated in this You know they've lost significant funds maybe all of their funds And the question was like do you make people whole or do you stick true to the absolute classic blockchain sense where you know it's totally buyer beware Shouldn't have put your Ether in this contract if you weren't going to you know if you weren't prepared to lose it. And the refund group one So in a sense I mean both Like Ethereum Bitcoin really all the projects are governed to an extent By the people who develop the software and kind of on an ongoing basis discuss additions to the protocol et cetera et cetera Right And even in the early days of Bitcoin I was not really around for this but supposedly they had to be extremely creative about having about keeping the protocol running while not ever reverting any of the history. Right So I don't believe they've ever done a hard fork of the nature described here though there have been maybe not sponsored by the founders Obviously there are forks of Bitcoin now Bitcoin cash you know all that sort of thing And so the Ethereum community elected to or the foundation or whatever that is elected to sort of Forcibly revert the funds There's just like a credit as of a certain block number So everyone got their funds back Jim had to code it Maybe I helped a little bit Now I was not coding anymore at this point And so then Ethereum Classic was like the hard line Like we're sticking the immutability Sorry Jim are you going to say something Oh no Victor you're going to say something

**[32:16] SPEAKER_01:** No no.

**[32:18] SPEAKER_00:** And so Ethereum Classic got some backers I think maybe famously I think Barry Silbert was in their Ethereum Classic Maybe still is And eventually it was I think someday Victor you told me this right Someday later it had a hard fork itself Right. When some issue was discovered with the protocol Is that correct

**[32:39] SPEAKER_01:** I think I don't know if it was a hard fork or a soft fork but yeah there have been like you know there have been debates inside There have been debates inside the Ethereum Classic community too on how to implement different changes into the protocol Right. It's not just running like there's constantly I think Bob Summarial of the Ethereum Classic Collective knows more about this stuff than I do.

**[32:59] SPEAKER_00:** Interesting Yeah Maybe I could follow up on exactly how this went down But I think also I think Ethereum Classic maybe was mining forever philosophically Right Whereas Ethereum switched over to proof of stake like a year ago. Yeah you know you're now

**[33:12] SPEAKER_01:** So.

**[33:13] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah they were more kind of Although there was Okay yeah I just googled it Here's a June 28th Cointelegraph article that says Ethereum Classic devs announce upcoming hard fork yada yada. So they at least subsequently did some amount of hard forking But you know interesting nonetheless Funny thing also when this this hard fork happens Right You know you don't This is a silly comment from someone who's fairly compliance focused Right Like what's the tax treatment of a hard fork Like you had some say you had some tokens on one chain and then they morph and now you have tokens on both chains I think it's like an air drop too are like ordinary income which means whether or not you wanted those hard fork coins You know you you probably have to pay taxes on them if you can access and liquidate them But you have to pay them whether or not you liquidate It's not just capital gains You know so interesting Quite a strange test of our system that we've seen with Blockchain because you know they fork all the time There's lots of air drops et cetera And you might not even be aware All right So that was the dao I want to Yeah this was crazy Like I still kind of can't believe this happened and it's happened way bigger and differently later But you know it yeah it was quite a moment You know all of this.

**[34:29] SPEAKER_01:** Well I I I I looked up the current price in current dollars it would be roughly the equivalent of 30 billion if you think about it So yeah it'd be huge You know like because just Ethereum was so small at the time

**[34:41] SPEAKER_00:** Right yeah Okay I want to take you to the second CoinDesk Consensus Hackathon and again hand it to Victor for everything you recall Also we have some pictures from that time Do you just show some of that on screen

**[34:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah I found I found it from Coindesk Let me see if I can still find them But so what I remember of it is that it was I think it was one of the first CoinDesk consensus events which you know subsequently became huge And then so they they kind of had two events around it One was a hackathon which we were part of and then and we were running we were like one of the main platform forms that was participating in it and then there was the event itself which was I think at the Ritz Like both events were in Times Square. Like the hackathon came first at Microsoft in Times Square and then the event was kind of you know a couple blocks away in the hotel And I remember that like during the hackathon itself we were in all these like different conference rooms and there was you know like early Hyperledger and some other I can't remember who the other clients were but there were like competing clients that were not Ethereum based. And there was a pretty good turnout I think like over a hundred people showed up Like a lot of people kind of showed up and our room got so crowded we had to like co opt another boardroom in order to kind of like build So like I think we got like a significant majority of the developers building stuff on our platform which was super exciting And I remember kind of walking by the rooms that like Hyperledger had had or I'm trying to remember what the other client had and you know there weren't very many people in there. It seemed like the people that were in there were like people who were working for them So that was really really exciting though at the end we didn't win At least someone building on our stack didn't win Because I think the winner was actually something that was getting built way before that hackathon existed which was you know technically against the rules but we didn't we didn't hold any window This is.

**[36:49] SPEAKER_00:** Victor asserts if we lost it's because someone else cheated So

**[36:52] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly That's at least how I felt at the time Whether or not that's completely true it's you know that memory is subjective That's all I say Right.

**[37:00] SPEAKER_00:** And the rest of the conference

**[37:02] SPEAKER_01:** Oh and then the rest of the conference So that I think was like the first shiny big blockchain conference right Like you know you had I remember Vitalik speaking. They launched I think the first Hyperledger app there. And a bunch of you know there was a bunch of activity. Like it was a really interesting combination because most of the other conferences like DevCon are really developer focused But this you could really see a lot of businesses becoming interested in And the thing I most remember about that conference is that we were like pulled into a room at one point and that room was basically in the room was the head of Hyperledger John Woolpert and Vitalik were in that room and they were like hey we heard that you guys have an enterprise ready version of Ethereum that you know can switch between the public net and like private blockchains Right And I remember Woolpert at the time was like my engineers claim that this is completely impossible Like and Jim I think you like pulled off your laptop and you're like here it is Like I'm gonna show you like this is this is how it works. And you know like you can start building on it and everything And there was this conversation going back and forth between Woolpert and Vitalik about I think Hyperledger supporting Ethereum And it kind of ended What I remember of it was it ended with I think Vitalik was you know he always wears an Ethereum T shirt Right And Woolpert is about three size larger than Vitalik But interesting

**[38:47] SPEAKER_00:** I think Vitalik is very tall stockier substantial If they had a bench press competition I expect there would be a pretty big differentiation You know in what John could venture what Vitalik adventure.

**[39:01] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah I I think you're right Like it's not we're not talking that John is unfit He's just like much larger And Vitalic is what at you know still quite skinny Right So like John was like three sizes before and I think it was Andrew Keys that like pointed to the T shirt and like Vitalik take that shirt off and give it to John because he was about to walk on stage and like it was like so tight You know it was like a compression shirt And he went on stage and that was like you know people were kind of shocked that hey what's going on Like this I had a Viper ledger and now he's wearing an Ethereum T shirt. And it's interesting because what Eventually that led to Hyperledger actually supporting Ethereum type clients like Burrow.

**[39:40] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I would add in talking to Obviously we we spoke to John occasionally over the years and he actually went on to join consensus later I don't really know what he's up to today I don't think he's there anymore But he had sort of a sense of like not wanting to be on the wrong side of history Like he always wanted to talk about he was always talking about like IBM's embrace of Linux as a Instead of like pushing really hard on a continual basis with its own operating system So they just put a ton of open source software development in Linux and of course it probably helped them you know have something to run on their mainframes which is still actually a big business for them today And so he was always like debating back and forth like should we do our own thing Should we go the Ethereum way What do we do And I think this was you know like perhaps the best illustration of that conflict I think IBM has since you know it's it was formidable for a while and sort of scary as a competitor and all that sort of thing And I don't hear that much blockchain noise out of them anymore I think they've shifted resources and all that sort of thing.

**[40:28] SPEAKER_01:** By the way I did find the picture from that first hackathon So you know this is off of Coindesk but here's the picture You know at the mic and this was one of the rooms and there was we had to co op another room like this was very early in the process.

**[40:42] SPEAKER_00:** Y. Yep I remember this one and

**[40:45] SPEAKER_01:** Here I am sitting in the middle of it over here But yes but yeah it grew really really rapidly.

**[40:53] SPEAKER_00:** Alrighty Close to rounding up here but got a couple more things So things are moving along 2016 there's some kind of organic momentum I know like we hired a lot of people during this period of time we're deliver you know Our software has been used in enterprise projects We're kind of like ramping up headcount because people are using our software more And so I'm looking at this and like I can't believe that the timeframe were this tight So DEFCON 2 is September 2016 and so it's in Shanghai Right So I do remember having to deal with all the Visa stuff The you know thankfully Consensus dealt with that We were kind of doing a capital raise sort of our first sort of seedish one at that time But it was it felt like a coming out party I don't know what do you guys recall What are some of your impressions from Devcon 2 Kind of etc

**[41:39] SPEAKER_02:** There was some big attack on Ethereum I'm trying to remember the details right now but I remember in the morning and lots of stuff was happening on the business front there But I remember waking up and suddenly I was just completely involved in like digging in with the Haskell client and and figuring out what was going on and what changes we had to make.

**[41:59] SPEAKER_01:** So I do remember it was like

**[42:01] SPEAKER_00:** Transactions that slowed the clients down being created Right And yeah I I think like I guess it was like due to the way the data structures worked to some extent it was like hard to make them process fast I I I can't recall But yeah it was funny that it was right around that time also Okay so good.

**[42:19] SPEAKER_02:** Well the funny thing that I sort of remember is like and maybe you're about to talk about this but but the EAA was sort of formed during that conference and Victor somehow in the morning grabbed me and he's like I've got all these meetings and I'd like you to come along too But I was like I had my laptop and I was like trying to dig into the tech with all this stuff that was going on there So I sort of sat in the corner in this coffee shop and I was like programming all day and then at the end of the day I kind of was like what were all those meetings you had And Victor essentially is like oh yeah we just formed the eea.

**[42:53] SPEAKER_01:** Well I yeah it was funny. I I think really it was Jeremy Miller who I think later went on to become chief of staff for Consensus Who really kind of drove that Like there had been a previous attempt I think by Matt Spoke to create some sort of group of enterprises to work together on standards and that never kind of went anywhere.

**[43:12] SPEAKER_00:** But then I have no memory of this so could you you know Matt was at Deloitte at the time

**[43:17] SPEAKER_01:** And Deloitte was early into blockchain like so they were@Defcon1 They were really early into blockchain Blockchain and kind of building up a practice Ironically in the Toronto office Right So like they're really focused on it And so they were trying to kind of at some point they had started this effectively a consortium of companies who want to use Ethereum right And then there was us where we were working with Microsoft that was happening sort of organically and But we realized that there was the need for companies to kind of collaborate to work together on this kind of stuff. And Jeremy Miller just thought like this is in working Like what's happening now isn't working We gotta get some proper structure Because I think it was just an announcement on the Ethereum foundation site but no one was really driving it So during that day we like kind of aggregated a bunch of people in that coffee shop Like it was like literally happening beside you And there was like Jeremy you know John Wheeling was there from Santander Like Matt spoke came in I think Marley came in at one point and you know like James Lazarus came in and we were all kind of saying okay we need this organization we need to get this together. And it was all happening at this coffee shop that was at the Starbucks that was just like just literally outside the conference center And it really kind of all came together and it was amazing to me because it was like right so by the end of the day we were like yes we're going to form this group that eventually became the eea.

**[44:35] SPEAKER_00:** So I want to add some peripheral details So we get to Shanghai Right You get this We're jet lagged It's a it's a hefty flight you know you get this card and the card says something like aliens not going to hotels Aliens being like you know people who are not Chinese who are in the country must report to the police within 72 hours or something I was like does that mean like the hotels are like part of the police Like I don't know. I assume plenty of listeners will not have been to mainland China And then you kind of gets to the hotel So it's like it was like an hour drive whenever the main airport is to the hotel Shanghai is vast Like there are high rises along the highway the whole way and they just get denser as you get close to where we do You know is there a name for the neighborhood We were we're staying in like the old stock exchange I believe which had been converted to a hotel.

**[45:23] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah we were we were right downtown. I'm trying to remember where we stayed at the time The conference was right downtown along I think close to the Bund That's the area next to the river and

**[45:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah that's right So the bundle hand side and then the other side is like brand new.

**[45:37] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah that that's Pudong Like that's like sort of you know originally was the suburbs basically And you know like I've founded two companies in China. So I I I think I was like the China expert there and taking people around and yeah like well if you're not staying in a hotel the government wants to know how to reach you And so if you're like staying in an Airbnb and stuff you need to if you stay in the hotel the hotel takes care of all of that stuff for you Basically. They just but like if you're staying in a hotel and we were all staying in service small hotel But I remember like taking you guys for like a Chinese breakfast and like you guys loved it Like we went back to that same place Like I was like they're all really good.

**[46:15] SPEAKER_00:** I think we went to like a couple holes in the wall too.

**[46:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah exactly exactly So so it was like this hole in the wall place and I was just kind of trying to give you the flavor and you guys really liked it. So we kept that The other thing I remember about that conference is that the Wall Street Journal was there and I remember I got quoted from them as saying I think China is going to be one of the biggest blockchain markets in the world You know this is before they started their own digital currency and really kind of went in on creating their own blockchain But I remember people thought it was absolutely bonkers when I said that because they they hadn't done anything like they was like so early in the journey. But as you said this all happened really fast.

**[46:53] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I'd also mention So we announced a project we were working on and was getting close to completion with BHP Billiton Just a big time project and kind of the first of our supply chain work Our kind of champion at BHP is a guy named Tyler Smith Very smart guy geophysicist blockchain enthusiast And so the announcement was great It definitely got everyone excited about the technology helped us close the financing at that time et cetera So we're all on stage But also I want to mention that Tyler I Think he'd been to Shanghai before and as one does when one's in Asia you try to get some suits for lower cost And he kind of told me his algorithm there's something nearby called I believe the fabric market Is that very big.

**[47:39] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah that's right

**[47:40] SPEAKER_00:** And he sort of hung out there for a little bit He told me and he watched where the Chinese business people went and they all went up to the third floor to this particular guy So he he kind of showed us where that was I think you got some too right

**[47:53] SPEAKER_01:** Or I did I did And that that algorithm worked out really well That that is also my algorithm for finding good places to eat Like I follow taxi like the way I found that hole in the wall Like you know I I lived in Beijing so I've been to Shanghai plenty of times but I didn't know near the hotel where they eat and I just got follow where taxi driver wind up stopping. And if that's the place you know they probably have pretty good food there.

**[48:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah yeah And he told me also the last time he had done a China trip he he went like 10 hours by buses trains boats to get like the best silk blankets which were somewhere near Shanghai I was never able to look into this and get them back So similarly he kind of just the local knowledge will get you a long way I I guess.

**[48:32] SPEAKER_01:** Well nowadays it's all high speed rail Like I remember like I I remember at various times traveling through China and being like you know having like 18 hour train rides and stuff like that which were brutal because like in many times I just had to stand during that entire time in a crowded thing But yeah now it's high speed rail It's it's amazing. Like it's it's faster than planes in most cases.

**[48:52] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah in any case it was it was an experience Right So we also we you know we did some business development there had a lot of meetings with prospective customers investors all that sort of thing It's definitely tough to do business in China for for listeners considering it and not from China I don't recommend it unless you really know what you're doing But it was quite the trip Like I actually had to leave a little bit early for some events I was doing I with intel actually.

**[49:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah that's right

**[49:20] SPEAKER_00:** But it was you know crazy It, it made things for for a tech project Ethereum was actually kind of Europe centric but I think Asia you know almost bigger uptake there so it made it feel really global and it was just kind of funny to see all of this happening like the Internet kind of worked it was cool to hang out in Shanghai as well and totally different planet felt like All right I think with that segue we could probably wrap it up with the EA leading up to the EA launch So the idea had been hatched in a Starbucks in Shanghai And basically quote I guess Jeremy was fond of saying is that every innovation lab is using Ethereum now They're watching us and they're each hacking it their own way to be something they can actually use Right. No one wanted to connect to the public net at that time It's definitely changed some over the years especially with the NFT revolution etc And you know so there was not a lot of technological reuse going on in the various enterprises were putting on the software to make it work for their needs Probably most notable in that set of enterprises was JP Morgan which we can you know talk about in more detail Um but a lot of them were doing it The folks at the Innovation Lab at Santander who we know pretty well We're doing their own thing You know it was quite a interesting to observe the goings on And Vic do you remember Okay so there were like a couple face to face meetings that were like very hush hush I think Microsoft's hosted some of them around the launch of the EA So you've kind of napkinned out the idea in Starbucks. But then what was the next thing that happened

**[50:27] SPEAKER_01:** So then there were a bunch there were a series of meetings that were kind of really about structuring so like how did we want to structure this organization and you know what composition should be Like should it be all big companies Should it be like how much of the tech should be involved How much of the company side should be involved and how it should work. Like you know should it be a free organization should we charge membership Should you know and all of that was on the table But the amazing thing about those meetings is they did start small but they eventually like wound up to be like 40 people in the room like all the major clients You know like all of these things. Because I think at the time really where the interest was in terms of real world applications of the Ethereum blockchain was in the enterprise space Like they were willing to kind of make investments into that So like everyone was kind of participating into that And so there were like these really active discussions. And ultimately we just had to set a line in the sand and make a launch basically That kind of led to it launching in sort of early 2017 But you know in terms of timeframe it was only a little over a year when we launched with a single big company And then at the launch of EA it was like 40 companies that were.

**[51:34] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I remember 28 or something like that There was a logo wall that was nice They showed you know it was really substantial

**[51:41] SPEAKER_01:** And it was in the Brooklyn JPM office. And you know like a lot of big players And this really kind of told the world hey this is serious Like this is something that should happen So I I you know it was really really exciting But yeah the negotiations around it were really complicated And in some cases he did I remember like one of the biggest negotiations was between the different clients Right. Like there was us and there were other clients who were trying to figure out how do we share information between us.

**[52:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I'd also add Okay so J P Morgan when did they announce Quorum

**[52:14] SPEAKER_01:** That's a good question. I I don't I think it was probably before the

**[52:18] SPEAKER_00:** EEA launch but I'm not sure.

**[52:21] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah I know they wore I know they had a blockchain team that ironically also were working in Haskell. So they were And you know eventually we wound up doing work on Quorum too. So there was like we had been talking to them a while and But I can't remember when the official launch of Quorum was.

**[52:39] SPEAKER_00:** I have some memory that they demoed something at and consensus might have helped like the front end of the demo I can't I can't quite recall but I believe that they demoed something at the launch which was what Like it was either 2-2-2017 something like that.

**[52:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah

**[52:58] SPEAKER_00:** So I think they must have announced it by then. So Quorum is Was a flavor of Ethereum or a flavor of enterprise Ethereum where they'd taken the Go Ethereum client and done things like add privacy and so that it was easier to obscure data And there was like a messaging layer It had you know et cetera and similar things we developed over the years just as we in response to the privacy preferences and needs of big big enterprises basically. So they all wanted to use the technology didn't want a native token They didn't want too much detail leaking to potentially competitors or even trading counterparties etc So they you know a lot of people at the same time developed kind of similar features to service you know the enterprise need the But yeah so the event 30 big enterprises there you know or 30 companies a few startups a lot of big enterprises I think the membership of the EEA peaked at like 500 companies or something really large Right.

**[53:48] SPEAKER_01:** Like it was in the hundreds like

**[53:52] SPEAKER_00:** I I don't remember 100 or something like that So like on the back of this announcement the business side you know got pretty excited and you know as later in that year there's also crypto run ups. Kind of everyone wanted to be involved But I think of the EA launch as sort of the end of the beginning If you look back at the price trend On bringing it back up I closed it So let's say it's February here It does start to really tick up and hit into kind of a fever pitch 2017 2018 Right. So yeah you know it's already at this time you know around 10 bucks But you know it really goes dramatically up and then you know kind of the next phase is the heyday of the ICO era which probably won't we won't talk about today but in my mind that was when it was a new but established platform and technology Ethereum kind of generally acknowledged by some of the public but big businesses as well and had sort of transitioned It was almost in the position of incumbent at that point Now I also I don't quite recall like what you know maybe if I flip this to market cap like when did a bit Ethereum you know move up the ranks You know it'd be good to know the like what was the big ranks Crypto coins or however you want to call them at that time. Like for a while Litecoin was number two right

**[54:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah and I think Ripple was up there.

**[54:59] SPEAKER_00:** XRP was usually three or something And I don't even know where Litecoin is today but it I'd have to check when the actual crossover happened. Ethereum would be solidly number two for a long time But maybe we should you know maybe I'll figure that out Right now I forget how to overlay the prices on coin market cap or the market caps rather So we've never seen the flip just yet but it got close at different times in this this journey So anyway I think we could probably leave it there Slightly shorter than the last episode it appears But I don't know Any final words Big Gym from you know this interesting time period in many people's lives our lives.

**[55:36] SPEAKER_01:** I I I think it was just like you know looking back it seems that you know if you look back on successful projects there's sort of that survivorship bias that all the elements were just there and you can see a lot of the elements there But I don't think in any way that success was predetermined Like I think there was a lot

**[55:52] SPEAKER_00:** A lot of coordinated effort Right. A lot of working hard on it together getting the pieces to make it happen so to speak.

**[56:01] SPEAKER_02:** I mean it's dangerous to look back in time and say like I knew that was going to happen But I will say that even before the launch I remember feeling that I'd never seen such a large group of people so excited about a particular project as that one So I yeah it felt like it was going to be successful.

**[56:17] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I just mean that you know we've mentioned a bunch of the people that like I think they all contributed to the success of the key point even though they weren't founders of Ethereum like they they made something happen that wouldn't have happened otherwise life.

**[56:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah it's an interesting thing It's like are you being tossed in a great wave or can you will reality into existence And it's like I tend to think of it as a little bit of both Right.

**[56:41] SPEAKER_02:** I mean it's not all hot air from us because we literally we do we did some of it lives successful technology

**[56:48] SPEAKER_01:** So

**[56:49] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Anyways let's let's close it there Thanks everybody for listening this far if you make it this far on the second one And yeah it'd be interesting to you know we might continue this series We could also kind of delve in on any particular part of it Maybe we'll get a guest maybe we'll we'll do something So if anyone wants us to cover anything particular please do let us know.

**[57:06] SPEAKER_01:** Thanks everyone Have a great day

**[57:10] SPEAKER_02:** Thank you