**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** That little flub.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** Fantastic.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** All here.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** Hello. Hello. We are back. Great.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. You know, technical difficulties. I suppose it's common. I I think we wanted to start at 05:05, and so we are doing well on time. Thanks for everyone for jumping over. Just a friendly reminder, just throw any questions within the Twitter thread. I'll be keeping an eye on those. Hey, Mike. Thanks, Yum, for posting both two great comments in the thread. And then, yeah, like, share, repost. Got a great space ahead. And then with that, I guess we can get started, I'll pass it over to to Bob to introduce the speakers.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So hi. Welcome, everyone. So, yeah, really happy to have Taylor Gary here as a as a guest Back in late twenty twenty three, Kieran, Victor, and Jim did a couple of videos on the early days of Ethereum, which I absolutely loved being an Ethereum history buff as I am. And I made a whole load of notes on those, sufficient that they invited me on as a guest on the third edition. So and I made a bunch of notes on that again. So we were talking through our own experiences from 2014 onwards to around late late twenty seventeen then. But but, yeah, just thought, especially with the tenth anniversary, that it would be great to have an OG on to talk about the early days, and you don't get a lot more OG than than Taylor. So welcome, Taylor. Hello.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Hello, everybody, and thank you very much for that kind introduction, Bob, and appreciate everybody. I'm honored to, join you guys and maybe add a little bit to the story, fill in some gaps in the history that people might be wondering, and do whatever I can do to get some chuckles out of the audience.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So, so, Taylor, do do do do tell us something about yourself in general. Like, where are you from? You know, what what what did your early years look like before you got involved in this, nonsense?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Sure. So I'm actually sitting in, the town I was born in in South Florida, where I was raised in probably spent the first twenty years of my life or so, a few more than that. I knew already way back when that I was super good with computers and kinda entered college, university with the intention of, like, getting a degree in that realm. And that's what I did. I went to junior college first, and then I finished my degree up in Orlando. It was management of information systems. And the way I describe it is half business, half computers. And that turned out to be a fantastic skill set to kind of bring to the early days of Ethereum. You know, when it's just startup mode, Things are just flying left, right, up, down, forward, every single direction, and there's not a lot of people paying attention to kind of how the business is supposed to work and be organized. I thought that gave me a little bit of a leg up going in, understanding that we're gonna have to submit receipts for things, and they're gonna have to be accounted for. And so I was a little more diligent with my early days activities because of that experience. But, yeah, I I left there to go to Chicago and got a lot of great experience in the companies and organizations that I worked with up until the point where, honestly, I got tired of working with proprietary software, you know, prom predominantly Microsoft houses, and I started moved shifting back towards open source software, kinda thinking back to when I first got started. I was doing, like, PHP, MySQL. And it found me at the right place, right time to discover and learn about Bitcoin and really fall into the whole world of open source decentralized cryptocurrency blockchain software. So I just feel like I was opportunity and luck meeting. You know? I was like, I had I was prepared for the right thing. I was in the right time, right place kinda situation and try to stay positioned there. And that way, I could bring all my skill sets to project that I was very passionate about.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, were you were you like a, you know, a libertarian, a cypherpunk, a gold bug, a prepper, any of that kind of flavor?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** You know, honestly, I I kind of had a little bit of a heads up about politics and and the whole left versus right right thing and trying to step away from that, but I had not really gotten into the super libertarian stuff. I wasn't really a precious metal guy. It was really once I discovered Bitcoin and really understood it and those principles that we all kinda take to heart once we finally join the cult. That really stumbling upon Bitcoin is when I most embrace those kind of ideals, if you will, and certainly hold a lot of those still close to me today even though it feels like, as a whole industry or whatever, we're kind of out of practice. A lot of people just don't really think about the decentralization side, but that is definitely part of what what drew me in was the idea that wasn't controlled and that we all are contributing. And even some more esoteric ideas like living in, like, alternative communities and stuff. I I'm I'm fascinated by all that stuff, but I recognize there's some practical limitations with modern society on making that work.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, how long were you a Bitcoiner before you heard about Ethereum?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** I discovered Bitcoin, I wanna say, in 2011. I I when I was clearing off a laptop, I, saw I had the Bitcoin software downloaded, but it was still in test net mode. I never I never figured out how to get it out of test net mode until when I really discovered the second time in 2012 and going into 2013. They continued working through 2013 doing some mining, trying to join various aspects of Bitcoin projects, writing about different alternative projects, like name coin, bit message, and stuff. And then I guess it would have been towards the end of that year was when I met in Milan, Italy. I think that was late twenty thirteen. And then Metallic ended up giving his talk in Miami to announce Ethereum officially in 2014. So I guess maybe it was just over a year that I was, like, a pretty diehard Bitcoiner. And then just feeling like there's more to this whole blockchain technology and and observing what everybody was trying to do with alternative things. Like I said, name coin was one of those, like, using blockchains for names name resolution services. I saw the writing on the wall that there was something else to do with Bitcoin, and I just didn't know what it was until I finally read Vitalik's paper three times. And, you know, it kinda clicked in my head that, here's the way forward.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** And and you were working for some wallet company or involved with a a wallet project

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** when you were in Miami there? Yeah. Yeah. So I think at the time, I I wrote in on the Bitcoin dev mailing list about, like, trying to figure out, can you do a slider, like, just normal UI slider that we use all the time for volume and whatever to adjust the fees and stuff for Bitcoin? And that was at the behest of Wendell Davis who ran a software company making high Bitcoin wallet. It was supposed to be something super secure, simple enough for, like, your parents to use. I think I had, like, Tor network built in by default, and he had taken an interest in some of the projects I was working on on top of Bitcoin. So probably most people don't know, but the first project I wrote, if you go on GitHub, there's a project called pay through, p a y t h r u. And the idea was, can I pay Bitcoin to people who haven't necessarily set up a Bitcoin address yet? So for example, tipping on Twitter, tipping somebody's website, things of that nature. And so I kinda came up with a little system where it would generate a address to send the funds to, if that person didn't have something preregistered. And I had a mechanism in place where if the person then, for example, put their Bitcoin address in their Twitter, link, handle, profile, whatever, it could go scan that, and it would pull that address out of there and then take the funds from the temporary address and forward them over the more permanent one. So it's so it's kind of like a way to hold the funds. And then if you had an account and you're like, oh, I wanna collect my tips. All I gotta do is, like, put my own Bitcoin address in my on my website or on my Twitter profile, and then you could receive those funds without having to really do very much. I thought it was kind of an ingenious system. Some people didn't like it because of the technicalities of how Bitcoin has addresses and return addresses are not always return addresses. But I think it was novel and interesting enough that Wendell saw the value that I could bring and my skill set to hide Bitcoin wallet. And so I started working on that kind of on the I guess it was, like, a very rudimentary dapp sort of interface. The wallet could could have, like, plug in sort of things where you could click on click on the the dapp sort of thing. And because you're loading it in your own wallet, it already knows what your receiving address is. So it made it easy to, like, go to a website and interact with various services with knowing already some of your crypto information. So I started working on, like, plugins and things of that nature, making them refined. But once I learned about Ethereum, I found it really, really hard to want to keep working on the Mac only wallet because I just saw the impact of, you know, working on something that I could wasn't just focused on one platform, let's say.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Gotcha. So

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** when it was very instrumental in in kind of informing, like, encouraging me, I guess, is a better word to go out and travel a little bit more and just be a nomad out of my living out of my backpack. And it was because of that that I ended up going to Milan and meeting Mihai, and Mihai is the one who ended up connecting me to the talc and the rest of the team. So Wendell's definitely an instrumental part of my story with Ethereum.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Nice. Yeah. He's he's a bit of a mystery man, isn't he?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Last I heard, he was in Thailand, I think, with a wife. I don't know if he was having kids or whatever, but I kinda fell off the face of the earth to me. I haven't heard from him in many, many years.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** No. He was he was at DevCon doing a talk about grants, actually, and I I got my name on the screen. I didn't get to go to London, but I was I was on the screen as a named contributor to eth embedded. So but, yeah, I I didn't see him around in Ethereum much much beyond that kind of timeline.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** There there's a lot of that, though. A lot of people have, you know, they put in their contribution, and they go attend to other aspects of life. Right? Life isn't just working about working on startups. I mean, some people wanna have families and stuff. So, you know, there's a lot of people who have done done their thing and and gone off to greener pastures, whatever that means for them, and no hard feelings to any of those. I mean, I find myself in a similar space where I'm not contributing like I once was and trying to enjoy other facets of life, but I think it's just part of the natural cycle of things.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. For sure. I mean, like I was saying on that Twitter thread last night, I think think a crazy project I could do at some point would be trying to talk to and interview all of these early contributors, you know, 80 or a 100 people, many have forgotten to the mists of time, and many of those have probably never been really asked about their story or their, you know, their experience.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. And kinda to your point, it would be great to capture that because, especially with ten years in the past, I know not all these memories are being perfectly remembered. You know, our brains are kind of faulty, and it'd be nice to get some of it down in video or or books or whatever just to, to capture all of that for future posterity.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yep. Yep. For sure. So, I mean, you'd mentioned Miami there. So Bitcoin Miami was late January twenty fourteen at very early February where Vitalik, you know, had his sort of announcing Ethereum first presentation at a at a conference. And then that was where, I guess, many of you got together to meet each other physically for the first time after, you know, a month or two of of interactions. How was that?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** A little nerve wracking for a shy computer nerd to just meet up with a bunch of Brandos, and I was kinda there with Wendell and his group. And then he had told us about these other people that rented a house, and I don't think any of us had sorted rooms, or figured out where we're staying, and it was kinda, like, just turning into a crash space. So, like, I didn't know any hardly anybody, and I was keeping myself a lot. But it did turn out to be a very important time and place to be in the in the historical story of Ethereum. There were the vast majority of, I'd say, like, some of the earliest people that had huge influences on Ethereum's eventual launch. A lot of those people got together physically for the first time there. I believe Jeff Wilkie was not, able to go, but a lot of the other Europeans came over stateside for that. And, that was the first time that I met and sat down with Vitalik, and we started working on some of the very basic ideas of what the website crowdsale sort of situation would need be, although that all eventually changed. One thing I I like to point out is that conference, there's some photos, some of which I took and some of which others took. But so the way the story goes is that room was was standing room only that he was in to give the announcement of Ethereum. And then afterwards, the questions kept coming in and kept coming in, and the organizers had to ask him to step outside. And I just remember these photos of, like, him being mobbed by a group of people just wanting to ask him questions. I think Joe Lubin was standing right there. Probably Anthony DiOrio was probably real close. But that's a that's a very iconic picture in in my mind, at least. But, anyway, the house that Anthony DiOrio had organized became kind of the hub and the central place where we all gathered around. I think Jonathan is it Monahan? Mohan?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Mohan. Mohan. He

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** was doing some recording stuff there. I remember Charles Hoskinson being there out on the back patio with Joe and and Metallic. I was in my photography era, so I was doing more photo taking. But I didn't know where to sleep, and I had brought a hammock down with me. And so I ended up sleeping in the backyard, on a hammock between two trees looking out over the canal that ran past the house for two nights. Nice.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Saying with that iconic photograph, I can't remember the guy's name now, but at some point, I I met the guy who's who had the speaking slot after Vitalik. And he said, and everyone just started off.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** It's like nobody left in the room for him. That's that's gotta be a tough act to follow. You know?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So so, yeah, saying about a great number of photos from through, I think, July 2014. So if you look on my my Twitter thread from yesterday, I I linked to some of those. Mhmm.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** It was a really interesting time. I don't think anybody really knew what was going on. I just felt like documenting as much as I could while I was there was, like, the way to do it because everybody was just living in the moment.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** Do we, think Bob's audio was glitching for a little bit, and now he's muted again. Can everyone hear me?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, I'm back. Are you back, Bob? Okay. Fantastic. I don't recall what happened there. Yeah. I was just saying on that on that thread on the on the photo thread that you got tailored, there was that sort of iconic everyone crowding around, Vitalik, yeah, with Anthony and and Joe there and then some photos on you on the back patio. Then there's that group shot, with everyone there and, and some other bits and pieces. So so, yeah, I was saying February 9 was the day that we arrived in in Europe. So, that's where the, the zoo adventure began in early February.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. It would be interesting to go back and check the actual timeline. I I felt like things happened kind of fast. The where we landed in in Zug was, I mean, landed in Zurich, but then we took the train to a small farm town called Myers Skoppel. And there was a handful group there that was just staying in an Airbnb. And I I went along with my friend Nick Fierro, who kinda came with me. We met up in, I think, Germany somewhere and continued on to Zurich. But we landed there, and it was just very chaotic in the sense that nobody had a a good sense of what was happening on what timeline, for what reason, you know, whether it was just sleeping quarters or getting the website online or who was arriving. It was just constant chaos. But if I remember correctly, Charles came in the next day or two pretty soon thereafter. And then the house eventually filled up with Ian Miekel who did all the artwork and oh gosh. I can't remember his buddy. Richard Wild? Richard Wild. That's right. Richard was actually the first one who was introduced to the project. He brought Ian along, and I think Ian ended up sticking around longer.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Though he wasn't originally called Wilde. Funny little tidbit. That's actually his wife's surname that he took when they got married. I forget her name, though. Really? Yep. I guess he liked Wild. It sounded cool.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** I just assumed it was a a pseudonymous

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** name that he had picked and changed or something like that. It could have been. But, yeah, I believe she had he he he had a different name before. Her name Jane. Jane Wilde. Perhaps it was a pseudonym for them both.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Who knows?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, at that point, were other people, like, working together in other parts of the world? Have you got people together in, you know, in London or New York as well at that point?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Unbeknownst to me, I I thought Zoom in Switzerland was kind of ground zero, and and I think from a legal standpoint, that was probably true. But, certainly, from a code standpoint, it it was not the case. And and that, you know, led to some, schisms down the road of, like the funny thing is, like, game of thrones was premiering every Sunday, while, like, Ethereum's developing. And Switzerland was just, like turned out to be one of the hubs. Right? There's also Berlin and and London and Amsterdam and Toronto arguably. And so it was like, took a little bit of time, but it started to become apparent there was definitely a game of thrones being played in in many different ways. I think we're we're all very naive in the earliest of days. But as we're trying to get money to get into a permanent house, like, what was called the spaceship, I started to feel some of the struggles and pains of, hey. There's a bunch of other groups, and everybody's vying for resources at this time. And then you start to get to deal with some of the other personalities. One one of the things I one of the fun stories I remember is dealing with the Germans and having to accept that, you know, Germans just talk in a certain way, and it's not meant as, like, an offense. It's just how they speak, and you have to kind of just roll with that. It's a little more terse, if you will. But being introduced to everybody around the world and having to work with everybody and and get those different personalities to mesh culturally or otherwise. That that was a very interesting process. We were we were pretty good, I feel like, in in the local hub and everybody that you saw on the daily. But it was, like, interesting once you started to get those other groups worked in and and try to, like you know, thinking about setting up a server for Gavin. You know, we were crammed in a tiny little apartment, and he wanted something set up. And I didn't do it fast enough, and I definitely heard a little bit from him. And I probably could have been faster, but I didn't realize he was kinda just waiting on the other end for me. So, yeah, it was it was just very interesting. I I was I was in my own little bubble with the Switzerland crew, but then, gosh, it was probably only a few weeks before we got moved up and out into a larger house and and things became much more complicated much more quickly.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Just looking down through your photos, it says February 9 is when you arrived in Europe. Then, And yeah, February 13 is when Stefan arrived at our tiny Airbnb, and then there was something on the twenty second about moving in somewhere. Oh, yeah. Richard and Ian arrive on February 22 and, yeah, Airbnb.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** So So I guess that was a a couple few weeks of there before Ian and and Richard arrived.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Right. And I'm just looking in March, the March photos. Charles bought dinner for 10 people on, March 1. Watching Fight Club.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** You know what? It like, looking back and one thing that kinda stands out to me is, it was definitely like a ragtag team of people there and trying to figure out what we're doing. Like, this became a constant, like, wedge in the in the group is, like, what our contribution was, right, from a code perspective. And I was responsible for the website stuff. So I think to our credit, getting the team kind of motivated up and going to go from we just met. And within a couple few weeks here, we started spinning prototypes of the website and working together in our different capacities to kinda get this machine in motion and prepared for what would eventually become the crowdsale. It's like kinda no small task, I guess. Just having to learn how to get together and and figure out your skills and, know how you're gonna plug in to the rest of the global, organization. But, yeah, there's there's, I think from February 12, we so just a few days after I landed, we kinda were up and moving on the website, and that was constantly a moving target too once we got additional legal guidance and getting everybody's photos right in the right order and the right titles underneath, and that became a huge headache. And, you know, that wasn't even, like, the actual functioning app that took in Bitcoin and and assigned, like, your key out. This was just months before in the run up to that. So it's just No. I mean, personality's jiving, if you will.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** I I believe that at at the Miami time or or shortly afterwards, it it was announced that the crowdsale would happen, like, within a month or two months. It was, like, a really super short timeline that was that was thought at that point. But then, yeah, I guess all of that got delayed both with technical and, more importantly, like, legal concerns.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Getting getting kind of our a legal footing, where we, as a team, felt comfortable proceeding. And and it wasn't just, like, one or two guys. Right? You have to get, you know, eight, ten, 12 leaders going in the right same direction and get them to agree when they want vastly different things. But, yeah, it was like I I think way back then, the whole joke was two weeks. Right? Two weeks. Two weeks. Two weeks. Everything was two weeks away, and two weeks eventually turns into months and months. Because the crowdsale wasn't till, what, June, July?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** July August. I July, August, September.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** It it was like and it ran for, what, forty nine days or or something like that. And and on the so I was, like, in New York for the later part of this time, and it it was funny to have the sort of stiff attorneys come by what was then our Times Square office, which, I was there with Joe and Jonathan Mohan and Steven, now now infamous. And, yeah, I think that it was there's always this, like, global communication going on, and it like, on the one hand, I think everyone was massaging the stiff law firm into, you know, what the parameters needed to be and the opinion letter and and so on and so forth. And, you know, I think from a capability perspective, technically, that was probably running faster. Although, we were not I think Joe spent a ton of time on, like, the terms of service and the docs and did did a lot of the support during the crowdsale. But, yeah, it was like the the app was being developed. Who who who built the the the app that generated the wallets? I'm forgetting his name.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Maybe it wasn't worse. Guy?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** The Romanian guy. Yeah.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Marius?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** I that might damn. That might be right. He might be on him. Did he go to work at consensus afterwards? I think that might have been the case, but I could be misremembering. But Does he know the the ETH stats app? Thought it I think that's right too. Yeah. ETH nest ah, that I I forgot about that.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** There's a lot of old artifacts from the early days that it's like I don't know. Some of it's what we were thinking, and some of it's like, missed that.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** What do mean with the quite a lot of coordination overhead, and, you know, I wasn't really in the center of it, but, it was very visible. So I go, bud.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So, I mean, were were Vitalik, Gavin, Jeff in Zug during those months, or was it just, like, at that early bit, you know, in in, like, February or so, Or were they not even there?

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** I don't remember Gavin and Jeff coming to visit Zug until after some time. Primarily in the earliest days, remember Vitalik coming there. And then once Zug became kind of like the legal home, we started doing more and more meetings in person there. These board meetings, things that needed to happen face to face. I don't think either of them were super keen on it. Gav loved Berlin, and Jeff had a lot of, like, family ties and whatnot to Amsterdam, so he didn't like to leave overnight if he could help it. He might come for a day trip. But in the beginning, beginning days, the telco would come and stay for a while, and that was kinda nice, honestly.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Because, I mean, what was happening during those months was the parallel development of three different clients. Right? You've got that that was working on. You've got Geth that Jeff was leading, and then Geth building, CPP Ethereum, and specking out the yellow paper. I mean, Jesus, Gav did so much work in those three months. Like, absolutely insane to to get to the yellow paper so fast from there. So, yeah, I I can imagine he was just heads down and did not really wanna talk to have people cheering his time up.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** It felt like, having Vitalik doing coding in Switzerland gave us a better balance. Because when Vitalik visited Berlin or, Amsterdam, it just it felt like the code went in the direction of wherever two of the three main developers were.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** And, you know, for better or worse, people realized that they could if they could bend Vitalik's ear, he had a difficult time saying no, and that means they could kind of set the agenda and direction of whatever they were trying to push, if you will. It was it was an unfortunate that it was like way back then it was that easy to sway, but I think that's something Vitalik probably learned certainly by the time we launched the project. He was becoming more aware of how people would would use him in that way. Yeah. But in the end, it all worked out. We all had the three different clients that were interoperable. To your point, the amount of work that had to go into the yellow paper to take everybody's discussion and put and codify it into something that was, even if imperfect, close enough for the for the clients to be developed totally siloed from each other. I I still remark that as one of the best things that was accomplished, whoever's goal that was, probably DABs. But famously, I think, defined the implementation as the spec. And from a technical perspective, Ethereum had an actual spec and that you could derive any implementation you wanted from it. And that's something that I don't know the purest technology guy inside of me really appreciates.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. No. I mean, it I I I think it's it it was pretty magnificent, to be honest. And from what I can see, it was it it was a direct reaction to what happened in in Bitcoin where, Satoshi had basically, you know, had this immaculate birth, and then you could never really get to alternative implementations, like, even now. Really, like, it's never really nothing's ever really stuck. And, also, I I think just the act of of having that discipline of of defining the spec and having multiple implementations, you know, that lets you triangulate between the different clients and say, oh, is there an ambiguity in the spec? So the spec there's a bug in the spec, or is it a bug in a client? Mhmm. And then that's really had this sort of, like, division of powers kind of thing, right, that you haven't had a single group and a single code base, and everything is is stuck with that. You you've had that that kind of balance. And, and, yeah, I mean, for the Haskell client, for Strato itself, you know, really benefited from that. You know? I mean, and maybe say something about about how that happened that that, you know, you could just build a a new client.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** So so I I think this was also, yes, one of the great things about Ethereum was that it was always a a really big tent. It was very open, in a way too open to to Taylor's point. Right? It you know? But I think on balance, the attitude was right. And, you know, I think later projects are had been run much more like companies, but, Ethereum, especially early on, felt like a kind of amorphous open source builder collective, if you will. And so the spec was documented, and so I I met our CTO, Jim. I'm gonna say September 24. Yes. September 2014 or thereabouts, and we started talking about it. And maybe unbeknownst to me after our first discussion, he started implementing the Haskell version of Ethereum to the point that it could sync, didn't have all of the features in it. And I started coding on it, I don't know, January 2015 or or maybe a little bit earlier than that. We would definitely find you know, we'd, like, wake up one morning. It was syncing the night before. You'd pull the latest and, like, some big module was added, like, you know, dev p two p. It's like, oh, it takes an an encryption now to, you know, connect and be able to sync the network. It didn't before and and such like that. So, you know, I think there was definitely kind of, like, layers of, access and consultation in terms of how the protocol evolved, and and so on. But, it was cool. There were tests where where we're like, you you would run the the VM tests and the results were provided, and, you know, we would be, or our CTO mostly would report on the percentage which passed, which would, you know, start at 80 or 90%, and then go up to 97, and then something would change. And we go down to 90 again, and, you know, eventually, we made it all work in the end. So it's it's a really hard thing to do. I mean, other industries, certainly, like, the the the aim, of course, is to have Ethereum be a protocol like HTTP or any other. And I think this was achieved or at least largely achieved. It was tough. You know? And just the communications between the teams were not mature, I would say. Definitely kind of like, whoever got to Metallic last again to Taylor's point, but also sort of a insider outsider feeling, was going on despite the openness of the project. It's almost a strange contradiction in terms. But, all in all, it's been been a great run.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. I think if there's anything to learn from having been involved in in Ethereum by any stretch of imagination in the early days is that despite the fact that we're we were all working on this, you know, quote, unquote, protocol, It didn't take away from the fact that it was, like, real human beings with real problems that still had to write the software. And it was a really big growing up time for me emotionally to understand that everybody's different differing needs.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Something I observed a few years later was you've got to be very atypical to even be involved this early on. Right? Getting involved in this stuff is not something that, like, a normie is gonna do. You know? Hey. There's this thing. It may or may not work. Might be illegal, but, you know, off off we go. We give it, you know, give give it a go. So I think, you know, intrinsically