**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Alrighty. Well, thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos. So we've done two on the early days of Ethereum, and I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. And in the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwill. So, Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in-depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. He wrote a long blog post that you should check out, and we'll link in the notes. And we asked him to join us here today to kinda dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro, and we can just kinda get into it.

**[00:55] SPEAKER_01:** So, yeah, hi. Thanks so much for the invite. Like I said to you guys, I love those first two videos. I love this history, and it was great to both hear that and have a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So there are a few things that came up, which I wasn't myself aware of. Just for everyone's background about me and who I am: so I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really kinda jumped in. And that happened because I was working in Toronto. I had a six-month contract. I was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainnet launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on, meetups, and Bitcoin Decentral, the coworking space, and everything. So I got really very addicted through that year, and it was like, right, I can't not get involved. Right? It's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever, and you've met Tim Berners-Lee, and he's about to go live on the web. And it's like, how can you not wanna get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry, so like fifteen years of C++. So I was like, well, I can do something with CPP-Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? Could you get a smartwatch and go around and like, *ping*, there's some money? You know, that'd be really cool. So, yeah, I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that Gav [Gavin Wood] was parting company with the Foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. So during that period, I ended up being, like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that. Like, no companies, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the Foundation in early 2016. And, yeah, I've been involved on Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, then more recently, Ethereum Classic. It's nearly a decade now.

**[03:20] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Bob, well, and to be open to everyone, like, we're old friends, and we're happy to have you as our first guest who's on this thing. But, also, you are like the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem. You're friends with everyone. You've been everywhere. So it's great to have your perspective on things. As Kieran has mentioned, for anyone who hasn't seen Bob's blog post, it's notionally a blog post, almost a full novel, probably a novella size. It has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about. You dug up so much content out of there. Were those your personal pictures?

**[03:58] SPEAKER_01:** Just stuff I had. I mean, another thing here is there's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was there's one called "Ethereum Foundation People" and one called "Ethereum Foundation Timeline." So I made those in late 2017, early 2018 because there was no canonical history of any of this. It's like, how did Ethereum start? I mean, it's in people's heads. It's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around, but it's like, what's true, what isn't? Because I think, especially on that Foundation side, it was such a mess. Right? Just like all different people weren't getting on, blowing up, kind of like Parity versus the Foundation and Charles, and they're like, god. So I think some people had almost taken this position of, like, we don't talk about that. Just because anything I say is gonna offend somebody else. So just *la la la*, it doesn't matter. But yeah, so I started gathering that list of, well, who were the people that were around in the pre-Foundation days and then in that. And so, yeah, I've got this one page, this People page, which I think is really cool. It's basically from 2013 through to early 2018 identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre-Foundation or who worked for the Foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is Devcon Zero, which happened in, I think, October 2014. So that was the very first Devcon, but it was a closed event. That wasn't a public event. And it was Foundation people at that time, but there were also some other key community sorts of people there as well. And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. So there's this video that's about fifteen or twenty minutes long of everybody, like, "Hi. I'm glad I'm here doing proof of stake research." Just see these so young, so many people that, like, early twenties turning up. And some of these people as well, they're not involved anymore. They're sort of like footnotes in history, but but you have that record. And so, yeah, that list of people I got all of that together, and the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, "Hey. I hear Ming's being sacked at the Foundation. Like, do you know anything about this?" And I said, "Well, no. I don't, but it wouldn't surprise me. But, basically, it'd be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you, but nobody else could tell you." Anyway, and it sort of came out, well, yeah, she's not been sacked, but she's agreed to leave. And then it's like, well, what's next? So I contacted Vitalik and said, "Hey. Is there anything I can do to help? You know? What can I do?" And he said, "Well, the one thing you can do is can you try and talk to people and work out, like, what would good look like? What do people think a good Ethereum Foundation would look like?" And so that started my sort of adventure really of, right, I'm gonna go and talk to all the founders, all the other people, and try and work out what—and then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side of, like, okay, so, to my mind, Ming was terrible. So how did she get hired? Like, what was going on whatever, two and a half years back that that looked like a good option? Like, how did it work before? How did the Foundation come about? And, like, what were the group of leaders and what were all the dynamics between all of these people? So, yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there, and that's that was the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I found, which is maybe the best information that there was at that time.

**[08:05] SPEAKER_02:** Well and, also, it's to your point. It's that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about, you know, like, everything works smooth, but innovation is messy. You know, it's messy and it's like, there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to, and we just want to kind of acknowledge all that. Like, given where the ecosystem is today—and even though it's amazing to me that so many people know about it—we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain and no one, everyone just glazed over. Right? So it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point.

**[08:44] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. One of the things that I know that Vitalik said, again, it was maybe in Laura Shin's book, was like the founding of Ethereum was very atypical because it was essentially like: here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested, and it's basically like, first people that turn up, right, you're founders. Like, a number of them, they've not even met each other before. They've not really a lot of knowledge. And so, yeah, like, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. Just like, no, like, founding a company, and I'm sure you guys have this experience yourself. Right? You wanna start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So, you better have some stickability with you and common alignment or at least knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right? You know that you can work it out. And what seemed to happen on Ethereum was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just a random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other, like, make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing. Right?

**[09:50] SPEAKER_00:** And that didn't work so great. And I think also... Let me actually, I wanted to ask about that. I'm also just looking at the list of the Ethereum Foundation people, which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was. You know, we talk about this because we're a management team, and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefits to this level of you could call it disorganization or just... you know? I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it's kind of it embodied the ethos, and it let people put the idea out there, and then people fought for its destiny. Like, Ethereum existed, and then they wanted to be part of taking it. And he saw this with the clients and all that too.

**[10:45] SPEAKER_03:** Sorry, Jim. Go ahead. I was gonna say it kinda worked like a blockchain works, in fact. Yeah. Lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things, and then they fight it out. But what's that law that organization technology reflects the organization?

**[11:03] SPEAKER_02:** Conway's Law, I think. So, yeah, something like that.

**[11:08] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, I guess, in general, yes. Having that, like, frothing emergent stuff is good. I think where it was really screwed, though, was to do with money and the ICO funding. Right? That it's basically like, okay, here, we're doing the thing. And here, the money is all actually in this organizational group. And the people in that group are being funded, are in this privileged position. It's something which Brian said to me in later years was it's sort of like the original sin of Ethereum is if you wanna have that kind of collaboration. So, whatever stuff like the EEA and Hyperledger or even just the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum, you don't wanna pay one team and not the others. Right. Because that just screws that battlefield. So you have this situation, for example, where you got the C++ client, you've got Geth. You did have the Python client as well, so you have that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the funded ones were C++ and Go. And then they have the money crisis of, like, "Oh my god. Is this thing even gonna happen?" Right. We've got cut scope. C++ is gone. Gav ends up going out of the way. And then you have Parity having one of the major clients but without funding. So it's like, Geth. Oh, Geth. That's the favored child. Right? It's not like the official client, but it *is* the official client. So all that sort of separation of implementation versus specification and free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth, and Geth were in the Foundation, and they've got Vitalik's kind of blessing and everything. So I think that's where things weren't great because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity. And I think if you look at what's happening now on the consensus clients for—I was gonna say Ethereum 2.0, it's not called Ethereum 2.0 anymore—but the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the Foundation. The Foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding. Like, they got the grants, and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way, but it is an even playing field in terms of the development. Right? Because you've got unevenness of funding, and that wasn't the case originally for Ethereum. And I think that that made a lot of bitterness as well because it's like, well, why do you guys get the money? Like, we're making another one as well. Or other parts of the ecosystem. Like, there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Between about 2015 and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program. You know, you've got the Foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars, and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything. So, yeah, I think the diversity is good, but the money was bad.

**[13:50] SPEAKER_00:** Interesting. Yeah. I think... alright. Okay. That's a strong point. So if you compare it to, like, a Bitcoin, which I know less about the history of the development of Bitcoin, but it was kind of similar. There was less of a... there was no pre-mine and no token presale. And so the people who are in it were in it for general interest, and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I I would argue in some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, you know, let's say, Feb 2015. Some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes, and it's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's, I think, been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

**[14:48] SPEAKER_01:** Another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients. And that there were multiple clients from day one. I'll see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyApp—or PyEthereum as it was—CPP-Ethereum, and Go-Ethereum. And they were all, I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. And then EthereumJ looked like it started in about April, I think.

**[15:28] SPEAKER_02:** But, you know, that was... Jim, Kieran, you guys started EthereumJ in 2014. Right?

**[15:35] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. We were much later. We were fourth quarter 2014? Yeah. That sounds appropriate.

**[15:42] SPEAKER_00:** And I had worked on Ethereum just in the summer, so starting kind of maybe June 2014. I got to know the project pretty well. And then I'd gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that, and we started work more or less right away. More Jim than me. But so, yeah, so there was a big time delay on our side. And yeah, I think okay. Yep. Bob, it's an interesting point. Right? I think probably they could have... there was some real mismanagement at different times both with the running out of funds, doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people, and it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously, we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of the idea and the community was so powerful that there's definitely a "succeeded in spite of" aspect. I think there was value still in this, like, throw it out there, get people to fight over it, but it probably overcorrected, and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing because it wasn't the big enough time.

**[17:00] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, the other thing is right at the start there. It's like, well, the people that doing it, that was the whole world. Right? You know, that was everything, was several months... I mean, all of that early work on the clients actually was before the Foundation even existed. That was actually unfunded. Because I'm looking at the dates. So the white paper came out in November 2013. PyEthereum was started on 11/19/2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. CPP-Ethereum started four days later, 23rd of December. Obviously, some over-Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then Go-Ethereum was December 26, so just three further days. The Foundation got formed, I think, in May 2014, but the crowdsale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So, you know, I think that unfairness kinda came in a little bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry. Nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback when the crowdsale had gone through, you had money for early contributors, which I think that was nearly 10% for like a hundred, hundred and twenty people. Like, some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual staff onto those teams. And that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had a for a number of months there and that that never got funded. And then you guys starting whenever you were starting. So, yeah, it kind of became uneven, I think, at that point. And probably the worst of it of all was for Parity, you know, when that team spun out and you basically did have a major, rapidly load-bearing client, and it was just unfunded, especially with Gav who was had been the CTO and wrote the yellow paper and had the first working client and all of the value he delivered. And then it's like, right. Sorry. You're out, and you're not getting any money.

**[19:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Do you... so my memory around the C++ client was that there were funds to do a security audit for two clients, but one at a time, and it was tight. Right? And so they did Go-Ethereum first, and I think they did actually do the security audit on CPP-Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure. I'm not sure they did. You know?

**[19:40] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is CPP-Ethereum was, like, working first, but then Go-Ethereum just caught up and overtook it really fast. So when they were making those decisions on cutting funding, which would have been mid-2015, it's like, "Hey, Gav, you're the CTO, but it's your codebase that's gotta copy it." And then that's what happened.

**[20:10] SPEAKER_03:** I mean, I was sort of building the various clients quite a bit because I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C++ client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first, I would go there. But the Go client was more stable. Like, because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often in an unstable situation. And so I would typically kinda go to C++ first to see the new stuff, but if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to Go and try it out.

**[20:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean and that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that was where the test suites were done. You know, like, all the tests were generated out of that code base. So as you say, all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first, then you do the test generation through that, and then those are the tests for other clients. So even when CPP-Ethereum as a client died, it didn't die within that testing suite for years. It's like, right, even though nobody's actually running this or using it on mainnet or anything, we've gotta keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from. So, yeah, that frontline was really leading across `solc` [Solidity compiler], the tests, and CPP-Ethereum. You know, all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps, like with Mix and AlethZero, AlethOne. Like, it took twenty-four hours to build the bloody thing, but that will be because it was all around Gav. Right? Gav was leading all of that. He was building that client. He was writing the yellow paper. He was working there with Christian and Christophe on that specification and testing stuff like that. You know, all of that was there. And then on Geth on Jeff's side, you know, it's just doing Geth. Right? It wasn't a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, you know, on Mist. Like, for a good while, I don't think CPP-Ethereum even worked with Mist. It's like all these groups not really talking to each other. But but, yeah, that would make sense. Like, a lot of it was Gav led.

**[22:25] SPEAKER_02:** And wait. `solc`, the Solidity compiler. That was part of that C++ group too? Yeah. That makes sense because it was written in C++.

**[22:35] SPEAKER_01:** But yeah. It was all under the Web3 umbrella. I remember the Web3 umbrella. Yes. So, yeah, Web3 umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for `eth`. It was called `eth`, the executable. So you'd have `eth`. You had `solc`. You had Mix, which was the original IDE. A Qt client. You had AlethZero, which was the GUI miner. That's right. So it's like, here's a good press the mine button. And then you had AlethOne, which was sort of... I guess it was like kind of a GUI client runner thing. I can't remember the exact scope, but it was sort of like, right, you're running a node, but you've kind of got a GUI on it. And I can't remember what it had, but whatever logs going by, and I guess you could fiddle with settings or whatever. But, yeah, all of that was in Web3 umbrella. That's a lot. And all of the they were all really code—oh, tests and the test as well. Right. But then they were all really codependent. I mean, when I started, one of the first things I did was, like, what are the dependencies on all of these? And it's like, what is all of this stuff? Because you had like libraries with it as well. It's like LibEthereum, LibWeb3Base, DevP2P, LibP2P. There were certain documentation all over the place. I mean, I think what had happened there that Gav was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he lacked, was it's like, right, let's try and make this modular. We're gonna try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this and the other. But it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. So you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. Like, you couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning. There was no inter-place discipline on any of it. You had to use all the latest ones together, but then it was all split into separate repos. So it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them and then whatever updating the sub modules and, like, that wasn't atomic. It was just a big old mess. So, yeah, one of the first things I did was work out an inferred dependency diagram, map a path to pulling it all back into a monolithic workspace, doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have, and specifically decoupling the tests from the client. Right? So for example, because it was tied in with this full workspace, it was literally a twenty-four hour build. It was like compiling Chromium from source twice, compiling Qt, all of this stuff. So just to get... and there weren't binaries available for `solc` either. Like, you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile a smart contract to do anything. You have to do all of that. So I remember, you know, after all that decomposition, I got it so you could just do, and that was a quick build. And then I did like Homebrew, and it's like so you could do `brew install solc`, and they did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, "Oh my god. This is amazing." But, yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

**[25:35] SPEAKER_02:** I do remember waiting, like, many times trying to build things, coming back, looking at it, saying, like, this can't be... like, my machine's gotta be broken because it can't be this long. Can't be like eight hours. Like, nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do. But you're right. It's just like...

**[25:55] SPEAKER_01:** You know, talking about that creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything, one of my first observations on joining the Foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that seems, you know, in an organized way. Well, you're one of the baddies. You know, you're the status quo. You're trying to subvert and take it over. Things as simple as, like, have we got technical leads that actually lead? Have we got any project management? Have we got any IT? Have we got anything? And it's like, no. It's just like a jumble of people doing stuff. And it's like, oh, how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But that was kind of the vibe as well. That was seen as a good thing, because it's because that's a defensive cultural thing. Right? We don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing.

**[26:45] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. You know, I think... I just have a comment. It's interesting, and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos. One of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States. It's Canada. It's different parts of Europe. And one of those confusing things, Bob, to your point about who got paid for the clients on the Foundation, I think, like, I remember there being a deal struck with Zug, the Canton basically around it. They were like, there's tax stuff and all that sort of thing, but they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally. They would either move there or they'd hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever. And I don't know the details specifically, but I think that didn't quite end up happening that way in sort of as a surprise. And I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which Parity and Charles were sent on their way. The client team set up in their own countries, and that was like a bit of a flip. Like, Gavin wanted to be in Berlin because the devs were good and inexpensive, and they'd be like living there. Excuse me. And, yeah, I think it's just... running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flipped manner where, like, overnight, we're like, "Oh, we're in a different country." You know? But they that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent. Major things changing as part of how the Foundation plus sort of operated that I saw. And, again, it didn't seem to hurt quite as much as you might expect. But yeah. But I think you had to have... you were lucky in how excited people were about the project that that survived all of this. And, again, from our side, you know, we're sitting in the Bay Area at that time, and we're like, why do they keep doing all of these things? Like, they're trying to build a thousand things, and it's hard to build one thing.

**[28:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, you have so there were separate legal entities for those as well. Right? So you have EthDev AG in Berlin, and then there was then there was an Amsterdam thing for the Geth team. You had the London stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff with Stephan and George Hallam, Ian, one other person who I forget. But, you know, you sort of talk about these people working for the Ethereum Foundation, but it was always woolly than that. So, yeah, you did have the thing in Zug, but most people, even if they're working full time, they weren't actually working for that. So when I had my contract, it was with the for-profit in Berlin. That was who I was actually working for, and then they were funded by the Foundation. And in general, that was another big split that it was. Right? Was you got the Foundation, but then you had that was like the kind of umbrella group for that that was leading essentially. So I think the Amsterdam thing like rolled into Berlin. I think that was also left side. And that in itself was a huge item of conflict. I know, again, in Laura's book, I think Joe [Lubin] was talking about that, was the kind of wanted a big chunk of money. It's like, right, the funds are there from the crowdsale now, so give them all to us. And it's like, I don't know that we wanna give you all the funds as you go, but that was typical of that period. It's just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity. And with that Swiss people thing, so my understanding on that was that was like a main motivation for getting renting that spaceship building. Right? Was the intention was that there were gonna be a load of people there, but like maybe it was, I think, testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there. It's like, right, we're gonna get a load of Swiss people to test things. And there's also like Mihai with his ideas of these coworking spacey things around the world.

**[30:35] SPEAKER_02:** And when and also to make it a little bit more woollier, like, same time like, very shortly, ConsenSys emerged out of that too, and they were doing a bunch of work. You know, we were technically working under ConsenSys for the first low parts of it too. And all of that was like in the mix everywhere. So I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert, and in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from Slock.it and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how ETC emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together.

**[31:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So, I mean, one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of shrinking of the Foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts, a good chunk of those people went to just went straight to Parity and just like carried on with our new client. But Christophe [Jentzsch] who had been working, leading that testing effort—who were just talking about those same tests—he and Stefan who had been community communication communications leader, and Lefteris [Karapetsas], who'd also been on the C++ team. Those three went off and formed a company called Slock.it. So Slock.it being smart locks, just the idea that you, whatever, if you're doing an Airbnb or something, that you can have a smart lock and that you could go and do your contract with someone for the rental, and then that could be enabling something on the lock that's checking an oracle or an on-chain thing and so on. And so that was that product area. At Devcon 1, they did an on-stage demo that was it was like a pot of... it was like a kettle, like a pot. Yeah. I remember that. It's like doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea. Like, that was the on-stage demo. But what seemed to happen there was, like, they didn't wanna do an ICO. They wanted it to be fairer, I guess, because around that era, the more later you saw lots of cash grab ICOs, and it's like, right, here's all the money up front. We're not gonna live it. What are you gonna do? Right. So they didn't wanna do that because they were very genuine people who come out of the Foundation and were kind of ideologically driven. So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs. Right? I think they were mentioned in the white paper even. And it's like, well, maybe we can make a DAO. So and I think that was just Slock.it DAO, really, originally, and it was like, right, we're gonna have a DAO. The money is gonna go into there, but then it's only gonna get released to us as we deliver milestones. So it's kind of like this separation of, like, right, the DAO is where the money is, and that's controlled by the token holders. Slock.it as a company, as a service provider into that, but we're a stackable service provider, and we're only gonna get paid as we go through the milestones. So it's like, oh, you know, that's really interesting. And to my understanding, that's what was presented at Devcon 1. It was like, "Hey. We're Slock.it. This is what we're doing, and we're gonna do a DAO with it." And it's like, "Oh, cool." But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after Devcon 1, and it just seemed to like warp into, "Well, we've made like a DAO framework. It's a DAO library, because we want other people to be able to do this as well." But then that sort of turned into, "Well, actually, how about it isn't just us? How about it could be anything? Like, anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into it," and then it became *The DAO*.

**[34:10] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[34:12] SPEAKER_01:** And it wasn't capped. There was no cap on the contributions into it. There was really nothing else that you could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well, I mean, you did have a few. You have this gold thing. You did have DAI, I think, was sort of coming to life just about at that point, but The DAO was kind of like the first big thing. And it just sort of snowballed and snowballed. Right? Because it was also touted as zero risk because you could exit with your funds. Right? If you didn't like the result of what was happening, you could just exit and have your ETH back. So it's kind of like, this is risk free. Right? It's like a sovereign bond or whatever. There's no downside here. This is risk free. Though tons of people are like, well, what else am I gonna do? I'm just sitting here on me ETH. I can't do anything. Well, pile on in. And the Ethereum crowdsale raised, what, is 16 million, I think, in Bitcoin, which was I think it was number five crowdsale of all time. Like, comparing to Kickstarter projects. So it's like, maybe The DAO will do 2 or 3 million, maybe five, and it just went until it was absolutely gigantic. And I remember at the time thinking, this is I don't like this. Like, DAO, it's not... this is not a good idea.

**[35:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[35:30] SPEAKER_01:** And the main reason I was thinking of that was, is this a security? Right. Is this seen as money transfer stuff? Because you've got Slock.it the company, and then they have this thing called DAO.LINK that was sort of a service company for paying people in real life. It was that was some Swiss thing, I think, or what's Bitcoin Suisse? And then you have The DAO itself. You have the Curators as well. So anyone could could propose a smart contract that encoded their proposal. Right? They would make a written description of the thing, and here's a smart contract doing it. And the Curator's role was like to verify, yeah, what they've sort of said in text is kind of what they've done. It was meant to be like this kind of administrative role. But what happened is all of those guys, that was their names and faces up on the website. So, like, DAO Hub website is just like a who's who of the Ethereum Foundation, basically. And it didn't say "Christian, creator of Solidity." It said "Ethereum Foundation." "Vitalik, Ethereum Foundation." So lots of people were like, this is an Ethereum Foundation project. Right? Because you've all got your names on everything. So I thought there was firstly, there was huge legal liability on those guys because where Slock.it got these layers of legal protection, these guys haven't. They're just doing it as individuals. And I remember Fabian talking to me and talking to the group in the Foundation. It's like, "You know, I've been talking to some of my friends, and they don't think this is a great idea, and I'm thinking of talking to a lawyer," and Gav backed out. A couple of weeks before the disaster, Gav just backed out. He's like, "This is not what I signed up for. I thought it was just a small role, and now it's like presented as a lot more." So he backed out. A lot of the others didn't because it was like, well, if we back out, it's gonna like ruin it, and it's like a great experiment. But I thought there was huge liability to them. I thought there were legal risks. And I also just thought it was a stupid idea. Like, why would you have thousands of random people putting their money in a bucket and then let's like vote on what to do with it? Who are these people? Like, what do they even know about a business proposal or anything? It's just like, this is a stupid idea. But I didn't have my eye on the fact that all of the tech stack was incredibly immature at that point. Right? There's no best practices. There's no libraries. It's just here's some code. And and they just went all in. Right? It was like code is law. Contract... the smart contract is the contract. You know? YOLO, you can't stop us. Kaboom.

**[37:50] SPEAKER_02:** But okay. And then the hack happens. Right? And I remember the details of the hack being they found a flaw in the smart contract code, and they could basically withdraw those funds into another account. And I remember there was some kind of race between like the people at the DAO slash Slock.it who are like using the same exploit to like drain the account, like using the same hack, basically. Is that right?

**[38:15] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So there was this reentrancy bug where it it's really sort of like to do with atomic operations or order of operations. So your reentrancy was that you could be calling... because people were supplying like their proposals, and it's like, "Hey. Here's a smart contract that's implementing mine." You were like calling into their code, but you can't know what theirs is gonna do. So there was this reentrancy issue where within that other person supplied code, you could like kind of call back in, and it was sort of like so it was to do with child DAOs. So this whole zero risk thing was like, if you didn't like proposals that were happening, you could make a child DAO of saying, "Well, hey. I'm out. I'm taking my money and my voting off into this other one. I'm not following you. I'm going there." Another people could join you as well. So I guess the idea was like, right, here we've got this totally over-general DAO, but we're gonna make a DeFi DAO or an NFT DAO or whatever. Right? And it's like, I guess, a little bit like some of the thoughts for ConsenSys and hub and spoke is like you're gonna get this universe of stuff just flourishing out and childs and so on. But, yeah, the problem on that child DAO thing is that there was this reentrancy bug where rather than just being able to pull your ETH or your share, you can actually go in and pull more and more. So you have this using this and a child DAO and pulling a giant amount of of the funds into that child DAO. And then within thirty days, they'd be able to exit with the funds. But but kind of the blessings, I guess, of that setup is they're not immediately exiting with the funds. Right? They haven't gone already and sold it on an exchange, they're done before you notice. You have got this period. And then the other thing is that you could join them. You can go into the child DAO as well. So after the hack, there was this appeal out. "Hey. Did anyone participate in this specific child DAO? Was anyone in there?" And it's like, yeah. Somebody else is in there. And then what you could do is you could child DAO again. It's like you could do it another one. It's like, "I'm gonna grab it off you, and you're gonna grab it off me." And so, you could have had this DAO wars thing of like you can never stop it, but you could delay it indefinitely. So that was one of them. But then the other white hat thing is, like, okay, well, we know about the bug, so we can do it too. You can have white hat people like, "Well, we're gonna steal all of the money out of the top DAO as well, but we're doing it for good. We're doing it here to keep it, to give it back." So, yeah, you had all of those games going on within that existing setup. But then as a reaction to that, you had all of this discussion about, well, are we gonna react? Are we not gonna react? First the first proposal was a soft fork, but it was just gonna like blacklist out stuff to do with the with the hacker. And they did do that soft fork. Right? I remember they did that soft fork first, and then they did done for it, and I think it might even have gone on test nets and things, but it never went live because it was spotted that it was a denial of service attack. Got it. Because that blacklisting was like not accounted for in the cryptoeconomics. So it was like, yeah, you had a denial of service attack thing on that soft fork. So it got done, and then it got undone. And then the hard fork was like, okay, well, we can go in and we can do an irregular state transition where at a certain block, you're just gonna have a hard coded thing which sticks different bytecode into the address of the DAO, which is like, okay, yeah, that thing, it didn't happen. What's actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back. So that's that was the hard fork.

**[41:50] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. And that's... I just wanted to ask, where were you at this time? Because I know you got involved, I believe, later with ETC because it didn't exist yet. And so, how in terms of your personal perspective on all this, were you actually implementing anything yourself because, obviously, you've got pretty deep knowledge of the technical internals.

**[42:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. What are you doing? I was working for the Foundation. I was on the C++ team at that point. This is about three or four months after I I'd started. The thing that was really interesting to me was how different people's thoughts or perspectives were even within the Foundation. That you'd have people, say, working on Geth going, "Well, of course, we shouldn't do anything." "Well, of course, we should." And it's like, been working with you for a year. Like, what? You think that? Like, woah. You have this real mixture of reactions. And, I mean, my my first reaction was, well, of course, you don't do anything. Like, it's an immutable blockchain. That's the whole point. Like, you don't like the outcome? Well, tough titties. You've seen so many, you know, you didn't have the Bitcoiners going all that, "Let's let's try and fix this up." And I think the only reason it happened was because of the scale of it, that it was a significant chunk of the entire ETH money base. And, also, I think that things weren't super great on funding and it wasn't like Ethereum was sure to succeed. It was quite nascent at that point. And I know that there were also worries about the proof of stake transition and the fact that if you had a large amount of the ETH in hostile hands that you could maybe have years of like griefing attacks and stuff like that. But, also, I think there was just a lot of people were like, "Well, this is theft. That money was intended for building the ecosystem, and some guys come in and stolen it. And if we can fix that, well, we should." So yeah. I mean, my immediate reaction was you shouldn't, but I also it was like, well, whatever. That seems to be the consensus that we do it, you know, and okay. Off off we go. Though I wasn't at the Foundation many more months after that anyway, but there was this real schism. Though I think from what I saw, I think probably about 85% of people wanted to do the hard fork and 15 didn't or maybe 80/20. But I think there was pretty strong consensus to to do it, but that was very contentious for a not tiny group of people. You know, that a lot of people that had got involved with Ethereum have done so because they they kinda wanted Bitcoin with smart contracts. And and if you're about Bitcoin-y mindset, then, of course, you don't screw with things. But but I think there's also this larger group that were like, "Well, ether isn't money anyway." Like, that was a messaging that had been given out at the time. It's like, no. No. It's fuel. Right? It's fuel for the engine. Though, I think part of that is just like trying to dodge legal liability. But but that was also true as well. You know, this whole world computer, here's a platform. Right? It's a platform like the web or Android. So I think it was sort of like that that was the mental split. It's like, is it money? And if it's money, you don't move people's monies without private keys. Like, that's a mortal sin. And on the other side, you're like, well, no. It's a bug. Right? It's a bug in the platform. And it's like, well but it was a bug in the smart contract. Well, if you've worked on serious software projects, you know, people hack shit on the wrong layers all the time because it's gonna give you a better user experience. Like, you don't have to be pure on that. It's really about how the thing works. So, you get hacks in the wrong layers all the time. And if if you're just seeing it as a software platform, then, yeah, it's a bug. You fix the bug.

**[45:45] SPEAKER_02:** So it's rare in life that you can actually see a counterfactual, but in this case, we can because ETC was created at that time and kind of emerged out of that. So, like, you know, can you talk a little bit about that, and how has that gone? Because you're deep into that ecosystem, obviously, as the director of the Ethereum Classic Cooperative. Like, how does it work now? Like, how did those words divide? And then, you know, how are those words continuing?

**[46:12] SPEAKER_01:** So over that month or so, right, where it's like, the money's been stolen into the sub-DAO, but we're gonna do anything. You know, you have the most vigorous debate on all platforms. Right? It was the topic. What's gonna happen? How's it gonna go and everything. Right? So, I don't think there's anyone that was like unaware of this stuff happening. You know, it's very, very everyone with their eyes open. But, yeah, you just you just have this group of people kinda gathering together, and it's like, no. We're not gonna go with it. This is not gonna happen. Or or at least, like, we're not following the hard fork. Maybe people do, but a bunch of people deciding not to. The other thing I thought was really interesting at the time and was to my mind the best thing of all about that chain split is to that point, I don't think there'd ever been a minority chain that survived. The standard thinking is, like, you're gonna have a winning side and a losing side. And it's gonna happen, and we'll see where where's the thing you know, where are the people going, which is the winner and then the losers. You know? Well, people will stop mining. It will just die. Right? Because it's the loser chain. So there's no economic value there and forget it. But what actually happened on the ETC side is you had miners that were like, "Well, just gonna keep on mining. I'm not updating." You know, some of it going, "The evil Ethereum Foundation and Vitalik's a dictator." You know? I mean, I don't think any of that's true. But you had got people that were like, no. I'm gonna keep going. And then, oh, look. Block production's still going, and it's still happening there. And then Poloniex listed it, and then it's got a market value, and then you've got speculative activity around that. You've got ether holders like dumping their ETC, you know, it's, "Hey. It's free money." But also, you've got other people on the other side going, "Well, you know, I see real value here and like this ETC is going cheap." So, notably, Barry Silbert who first non-believer in Ethereum to that point, presumably, like, based on pre-mine and various other things, but was like, "Well, oh, actually, like, an immutability focused ETC would be really interesting." So, yeah, you just got this sort of grassroots thing forming. You got volunteers jumping up saying, "Hey. I'm a developer. I'll keep maintaining the classic Geth clients" and so on. And it it found its own legs that you had like the Ethereum subreddit was like a primary communication platform at that point, and then you had like an Ethereum Classic one being created and some people in one side, some on the other. But, you know, it got quite bitter in the end. Right? You've got a lot of people that were like, "Foundation. You guys just ruined the project." And you had people on the other side seeing ETC as really illegitimate, saying, "Well, look, it's just a money grab. You just want your free money. Why are these Bitcoiners kinda coming over? Like, they weren't interested in Ethereum before, and now they are. Like, that's not good." And and you did obviously have a bunch of speculators in there as well, so that's sort of a bit nasty too. But I think the thing that like set up those communities finally was this like "100% ETH" meme, which came about because somebody tweeted, "Hey, Vitalik. I hear that you're working on Ethereum Classic. Is there any truth to this?" And he said, "No. I'm only working on Ethereum." And the person then said, "Well, what if ETC had more market cap than Ethereum?" And he said, "No. I still wouldn't work on it. 100% ETH." Like, he wasn't saying it in a purity pledge way. He was just in the way he does being just making a factual statement. But then I remembered, you know, Joe replied, "I'm a 100% ETH." And then it's like everyone's doing it. Right? It's this purity pledge. You know? Everyone is expected to pledge allegiance to ETH. So it became a, "Oh, shit. Is this an either/or? Like, you can't be in both. If you're interested in ETC, then you you're a dirty person." So I think that that really wedged it apart at that point. And and also a number of the people that were volunteering on ETC, they were really angry. They were like, "Well, I been involved for two and a bit years in this project, really pumped about everything that you can do with Ethereum, and then you guys have have wrecked it." So there was a lot of bitterness from that ETC side back. But then, you know, things kind of split apart, and over time, ETC found its own path. So with the real differentiation being well, firstly, the DAO hack didn't happen. That was the only initial difference. Very rapidly, though, there was this conclusion that fixed economic policy was needed. You know, the ETC was really like Bitcoin with Ethereum technology, but Bitcoin culture and ethos. So it's like, right, there's no fixed monetary policy for Ethereum. And, I mean, you see this over many years. There's like change of block rewards, ice age, delays, fee burning, you know, many, many changes. So that was the first kind of like major change on the ETC side was introduction of that fixed monetary policy because there was consensus that that was bad inheritance that we wanna fix. And the other thing that that enabled was the Grayscale ETC fund. So at that point, it's like, right. Okay. This is really a Bitcoin feeling thing, and there's a feeling that there's value here. So then from from that, Grayscale then created the ETC Cooperative that I work from. So a share of the fees went into that kind of not quite a foundation, but a bit like a foundation, nonprofit to support the ecosystem. And then the other thing more recently is just proof of work. You know, there was sort of fairly rapidly a consensus that we just wanted to stick with proof of work indefinitely, but that that proof of stake was seen as a centralizing oligarchic kind of thing that didn't really fit with that ethos. But more generally, ETC is tracking protocol changes in Ethereum very compatible.

**[52:05] SPEAKER_02:** So there have been forks, but not the hard fork along the way because...

**[52:10] SPEAKER_01:** Although you need to... So the yeah. I mean, they've hard forks, but not chain splits.

**[52:15] SPEAKER_02:** Got it. Okay.

**[52:16] SPEAKER_01:** In the old protocol updates on Ethereum as well, they're all hard forks, and the old side doesn't actually go away. You know? You could run a Frontier node if you wanted. You can mine on Frontier, mine the Olympic test net, mine any of these ones. It's just you have had the wither and die because there hasn't been contention. But on ETC, you have sufficient contention that you had a chain split. But, yeah, I guess that's a sort of a Bitcoin thing is saying, you know, forks are bad. But it's like conscientious hard forks are bad. Hard forks are an upgrade mechanism for the protocol.

**[52:50] SPEAKER_03:** Got it. Yeah. I mean, I remember I had to implement that fork a few years ago, and and it was pretty blatant. It was just like, take money from here and place it here. By the way, it didn't bug me. But but we had people in Red Blockly [BlockApps?] who thought of it as like a stab to the back. They were like so upset by it.

**[53:10] SPEAKER_01:** Well, I mean, it's literally here's an array of addresses, right, to fuck with.

**[53:15] SPEAKER_03:** Yep. I remember that was I don't remember what else was in there, but I remember like the majority of it was just like take a bunch of money and put it into these addresses, and that was the fork.

**[53:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. You know, for this list of addresses, replace... you know, it was yeah. You know, replace the bytecode with this other bytecode. And, also, yeah, move I think the moving was consolidating the child DAO. So I think that's what that was doing. So it's like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO and change the bytecode. Like, I think, if block equals this, do a horrible thing.

**[53:50] SPEAKER_02:** But in the ETC world where the DAO hack happened, are those funds? Like, did the hacker pull out those funds? Did okay. So, like...

**[54:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Yep. Interesting. Yeah. I mean, again, Laura has a great write up of all of this in her book, *The Cryptopians*, including working out who it probably was.

**[54:12] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, wow. Okay. Wow. So...

**[54:15] SPEAKER_01:** She didn't name names in the book, but then she did an article like on the release day or just before naming who she thinks it was. So that's an interesting story. I can I'll dig out that article and send it to you guys so you can add it to the description here.

**[54:30] SPEAKER_02:** Cool. And but, you know, Bob, you're a natural born bridge builder. As we said, you get along with everyone. Do you ever see the valley between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic narrowing or getting better, or do you think it is getting better?

**[54:45] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, the problem that Ethereum Classic has always had from the time of the split, and it comes back to money again. Like, I think that was the one thing that the Foundation did wrong. Not talking about the developers or the decision on that or whatever was to only put the money on one side because what that did is disenfranchised a good chunk of people who had invested in the presale, who'd been part of that community, who'd genuinely been actively involved for those first two years, and they were just left in the dust. It's like, fuck you guys. We don't care what you think. Goodbye. Right. And the trademark's going this way and all the funds are going this way and and all the developers went that way as well. And, I mean, obviously, like, the Foundation can control that, what people choose to work on. But what that meant is effectively that group of people got defunded. Like, totally done. I'm sorry, my child. I disavow you, and I'll kick you out of the house forever, and I wish I'll never talk to you again. I think in retrospect, it should have been like, okay, funding is available for that other fork as well. And you may hate us and not wanna talk to us, I guess it's like a child, whatever teenager I'm acute and I'm leaving home. And it's like, okay. But I'm not gonna stop putting aside savings and money for you. You might not love me now, but you're my child too, and we'll find a way of making it happen. Because, say, with the ETC Cooperative, you know, it could have been well, when that came into existence, the Foundation could have gone well, okay, here's a body that can help, and there you go. We're gonna fund it as well. And that there was something a little tiny bit like that with Virgil [Griffith]. So Virgil was also a huge bridge builder between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic. So in 2018, he invited Anthony Lusardi, who was my predecessor, to speak at Edcon. So this was May 2018, and that was the first Ethereum Classic talk at an Ethereum event, being nearly two years at that point. And it was fine and it was cool and everyone was friendly and and various others came to that talk and it's all all kind of friendly. And Anthony invited me to Ethereum Classic Summit, which was in September 2018. So myself and Virgil went and spoke at that event. And around that time, Virgil, they somehow they found some ETC that the Foundation still had. You know, generally, they did a market dump at that time, but there was some stuff that they found, you know, so it's like $50 or something like that. And so we got that donated to the co-op, which was great. That was a that was a really nice nice kind of thing. But, you know, it was kind of like, here's a little gesture. But, really, I think that was a real failing because it was a legitimate, irreconcilable difference. But but it was made even worse by this 100% ETH purity pledge combined again with all the money's gone. So you end up with a very small community of mainly people who are very ideologically outraged by it. If you've got speculative token holders, obviously, that they're gonna stick with Ethereum. You know, what's this other thing, this new thing, and there's nothing. So that's always been the issue that ETC's had is lack of lack of money and interest, really. More recently, we've had support from Bitmain. After The Merge with Ethereum moving to proof of stake, all of a sudden, ETC is one of the larger mining ecosystems. So all of a sudden, we we're very aligned with Bitmain. You know, they wanna sell ASICs. They wanna be using Antpool for mining. So they're supporting a grants program now. But, yeah, ETC is you know, it it's small, but you have some people, and that's that's what they want.

**[58:30] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And as you said, like, it's broken mode of like side chain surviving. Right? Like, it real like, these it it's possible.

**[58:40] SPEAKER_00:** I wanted to talk quickly about the definition of success for blockchains, market caps, and all that sort of thing. And I was looking today because so Ethereum's market cap is in the 200 billions. Ethereum Classic is still at number 28, which is quite impressive and is 2.6 billion in market cap. I think market cap is probably more of an indicator of popularity than anything, rather sort of truly long term. It's not quite like with companies where market cap is probably a better indicator of how important they are, but it is also still.

**[59:15] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So it's very liquid. If you look in CoinGecko, so Ethereum Classic is higher than Cosmos, than Filecoin, than Hedera, than Internet Computer, than Aptos, than Lido, than Near, than Optimism, than Arbitrum, than The Graph. You know?

**[59:35] SPEAKER_00:** And so I wanted to to follow, you know, is market cap a good goal? What is your goal for ETC? If you were trying to make up the gap with Ethereum, would you do anything differently?

**[59:50] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, I think to do that, you just need vast investment into application layer. I mean, I think I think that's somewhere where ETC really can't compete with many other VC chains that have huge treasuries that can be spending tens or hundreds of millions on grant programs. We can't compete that way. But, also, it as you say, it it's a bit of a vanity metric in a way. You know? Like, there are many other vanity metrics that we come in to see in the space because, yeah, if you want whatever the fastest chain or the most money or whatever, like, yeah, that's not gonna be ETC. Like, it can never be ETC. But for people that are interested, that's not the goal. Right? They're looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts, you know, with that kind of strong nonintervention kind of bias. And also proof of work, a lot of people see real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof of stake systems. So, you know, it's not a winner takes all.

**[1:01:00] SPEAKER_00:** It's been interesting just how not a winner takes all the blockchain space has been. They've they've had this they're like cockroaches. They just kinda they keep going. I know they get delisted occasionally, but, you know, how many let's see how many pages you can get to on... Can we call them tree clippings instead of...

**[1:01:20] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. 20,000 live chains.

**[1:01:25] SPEAKER_02:** I was gonna ask you more questions about the early days of EEA, but I think we will have to invite you back because I'm pretty sure we could have another ninety minute conversation on that. But it's been great to have you, Bob. As always, you're always been a great friend and a wealth of information on the space. So thank you for joining us, and we hope you'll come back again soon.

**[1:01:48] SPEAKER_01:** Well, thank you, and sorry for monopolizing.

**[1:01:50] SPEAKER_00:** No. This is exactly what it is. Why you're here. Yeah. We Your story, we've told plenty of ours. Should we you know, I see on on other podcasts, Should we send people anywhere? Where can people find you? Do you want them to find you, etcetera?

**[1:02:08] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I can I can drop you some links afterwards? But, yeah, my own website is bobsummerwill.com. Ethereumclassic.org is is the main sort of landing page for ETC.

**[1:02:22] SPEAKER_00:** Awesome. Fantastic. Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate your time. And Yeah. I'm sure we will follow-up. We'll put our heads together and do another one when we're ready.

**[1:02:35] SPEAKER_02:** We'll have to have a round two. There's plenty there's plenty more stories that we haven't even touched on yet.

**[1:02:40] SPEAKER_01:** Okay. Care. Cheers, guys. Alright. Cheers.