**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. Recording is in progress, it says. So hello, everybody. Today, delighted to have Christophe with us. We did attempt to record this Christophe and I two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button. So we spoke for an hour or so, and then it was not recorded. So this is round two.

**[00:01] SPEAKER_01:** So hello, Christophe. How are you? Hi, Bob. Nice to meet you again. I'm I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

**[00:02] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. Yeah. So so Christophe and I, you know, our paths crossed, for the first time, way back back in 2015, when I was, trying to do, c plus plus Ethereum on my smartwatch. This was around the time that Christophe was was still at the at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think I crossed paths across a number of times since and and too. Indeed. So so, Christophe, what what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

**[00:03] SPEAKER_01:** So in we actually this the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self organizing systems. So, like, biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which has just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. And but the the reason I came across this was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into what what's Bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, did read everything I could about it, and then I came across the white paper from MetaMask early two thousand fourteen, some start January, February in some Bitcoin forum somewhere. And I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decent currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper of Viterlik, I mean, if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy. Except except of NFTs, everything's in there from DAOs, from ENS, like, names as domain names as terms and all of that. So for me, it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin, but just not a currency, but everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2000 no. Actually, still 2014 in summer. I went is it the crowdsale was in 02/14? Right? Right. Yeah. The crowdsale so around the time the crowdsale happened, I went did watch a video from Gavin Woods. He was somewhere in the Scandinavics, some conference there, the Nordics. And he talked about Ethereum. I loved it. And he said he want to open up an office in Berlin looking for c plus plus developers. I was a c plus plus developer. So in trajectory physics, it's 90% software development. So I said, well, I wanna do this. So I took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my PhD for, like, three or six months and said, I will return after I'm done. I thought this just a short project because they raised money maybe six maybe maybe twelve months, eighteen months or so, then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD. So I worked there with Ethereum. This is it's Kevin Woods. It was a great time. And then just decided to stay. It was so exciting.

**[00:10] SPEAKER_00:** So so you never got to be a doctor

**[00:11] SPEAKER_01:** No. I'm not a doctor. I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked, like, for three years on that. And but I also had, at the time, I think, four or five kids. And needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student, so I did some software development as a side hustle, basically. And so when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as a parent leave time, and then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD. Is that I will maybe return one year later because I thought the foundation eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits. They just raised donations, then they will spend them, then it's over, Then I can continue my PhD. That was originally a plan. Just came different.

**[00:14] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, I guess it's never too late. Right?

**[00:15] SPEAKER_01:** I actually sometimes think about it if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing tokenize it. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works works very well. So, currently, I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

**[00:18] SPEAKER_00:** No. Because, I mean, famously, you had, you know, doctor Kevin Wood and doctor Christian as well. And I think Yeah. I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well. There was. Definitely.

**[00:20] SPEAKER_02:** I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting

**[00:21] SPEAKER_01:** background. It's actually the same. To like, theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I I tried very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun.

**[00:24] SPEAKER_02:** Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He can get some browser issue.

**[00:25] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. Well, he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's if he's I'll see. Then then then never mind. So so, Christophe, in terms of, you know, getting hired into f dev, and I'm sorry if I just missed it. So how how did that happen? Did you did you meet Gavin for a meetup, did you say? Yes. I actually, no. I listened only to his talk. It's supposed to be online thing.

**[00:30] SPEAKER_01:** I actually just wrote him an email. Said, look. I would love to join with you. I love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet me in Kreuzberg Berlin. So which, again, is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation, he was talking about all the stuff they were gonna build and said, well, what what can you do? And I just asked him, what's, like, the most complicated stuff you have right now? Like, give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum virtual machine, which did some testing. So so I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or, like, writing test for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level. I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work. Like, it's a such a great specification different from Bitcoin, really having a specification so multiple clients could be built. In India, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I I think I read the paper six, seven times. I felt like it was one out of, I don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the c plus plus client because this was his team. So I was working also on the c plus plus code base. And so gas, py, Ethereum, also the JavaScript version, and and what else did you have? Like, Haskell client and others. They're basically using my test to see if they implemented machine, also the state transitions, and block creation correctly.

**[00:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, just just to have some timeline for the for the viewers. So, obviously, a lot of of testing and coordination in this different series of of concepts. So, I mean, what how did you know it was good enough? Like, what was that testing flow and collaboration like?

**[00:40] SPEAKER_01:** So there are many indicators. One being the Olympic test that running smoothly for a while. Other one, we had a static client having an audit, which worked. And then they were saying, okay. Now if Christoph doesn't find any failing test for, like, three weeks or four weeks or something, we are ready. This was the case. And so we said that now we can set launch date. In And the launch itself, it's also a bit typically typically Gavin or or nobody wanted to push a button. Like, nobody just, like, start a chain. So what was done was there was a script written, which has as an input parameter, the hash of the Olympic test net at a certain block height. So everybody could, using the script, plus the software, plus C plus plus or GoClient, of course, having plus the hash, which was at that time in the future, of the Olympic test net start that chain. So there was no at the, like, at launch day, we were just viewing it. There was nothing to be done. It was, like, everything was all the information was out there. People were just simultaneously starting the blockchain. And then over the peer to peer network, this was actually the more more harder stuff. They found themselves on Reddit and others to share IP addresses like connect to miss connect to my peer, connect to my peer. And so then they started to come together, and, of course, the longest chain was the Reddit one. So as soon as you found a peer which had their own chain, you would think and say, Russ, yes, this is a longer one, you would stop and start mining on top of his chain. So basically, the canonical chain emerged from that within, I don't know, thirty minutes or one hour, and then we had the chain running. And this was like, a beauty to behold. Like, let's just see how this works out as intended, completely decentralized. Nobody did that do anything. We just I was in the C Plus Plus Building office in Kreuzberg, 37 A. Nice office, and we just watched it. And we are somewhere mining there with the laptop. Wasn't really and we are all excited that it stopped. I actually think think two or two or three weeks after or maybe four, we had the first little hard fork. Meaning there was some smart contract doing something that gas and c plus plus had a different result. Because for me, almost the middle of the light at 10PM or 11PM. So I remember seeing this, looking for one hour or so, finding what's the e what's the issue, then I found it, put a test about it. It was fast, was right, guess what's wrong. So I gave it to Jeff. They fixed it. I think we said one hour. In fact, after five hours, everything was done. And they basically called up the miners. Please update your client. So and then it was fine. So this was the early days, but it was a successful launch, nevertheless.

**[00:50] SPEAKER_03:** I do not know. Did

**[00:51] SPEAKER_01:** Jim?

**[00:52] SPEAKER_03:** No. We we were able to sync at Genesys time for, like, a year or so. We were syncing. But I remember, like, that week, Karen and I were, like, more interested in trying to get a minor in place. So that was the what that week looks like for us.

**[01:00] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I had, I was living in a apartment just south of Berkeley campus at this time, and we've been taking me to Fry's to build a machine a few months prior, like a build machine. It had a good GPU in it. Yeah. Fry's is dead now. Uh-huh. RIP. I was running a miner there, and we built a couple in Jim's garage. I got very hot in Jim's garage, which was you know, those those things were consuming a fair bit of power. Mine exploded, after a few weeks. It was actually just the power. So I was, I thought the whole machine was bricked, Jim said, you know, I think everything but the power supply will be okay. And it was the case, that everything but the power supply was okay, but then I stopped mining.

**[01:10] SPEAKER_03:** And I think Jim would shut We didn't even bother to buy cases at that time. Right. Yeah. I was just You may have had a case. I I I had mine just sitting wires out.

**[01:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Indeed.

**[01:13] SPEAKER_01:** There was always new features coming. I remember, it was, like, we one of the sweet memories during the prelaunch, sitting together with Gavin, Jeffrey, and me in one room at the c plus plus office, like the nice Gavin office. He had this eighties style thing. And we think, okay. What was wrong in our protocol? Then they discussed with the whiteboard changes. Then they first say, okay. Chris. If you write a test for this protocol change, then we are in the meet at the same time, you're coding it. The okay. You're done creating a test. Let's see if they all pass it. If they all pass it, it's like, done. Your feature did directly you release. And so this is not done with all the other clients. So they basically had to catch up. There was, like, information update of yellow paper. Here's a new test. Here's, like, a little e ether pad description of what the new Yellow protocol looks like, and then please update your clients.

**[01:20] SPEAKER_03:** This not got me to a certain point. Sorry. The the Yellow paper always got me to a certain point, but it was always behind the other the other, clients. So I would always find out that, like, I I was behind because I went in the morning and connected to the test net, and I was no longer connecting or I was getting some state route mismatch or something. And then I'd have to, like, go and dig through usually the c plus plus client. I think there was, like, maybe one or two times where, I can't remember why. I think there was one or two things that went to Geth first. I can't remember. But I had to sit there and reverse engineer. Maybe that was the one that was in Geth first. I can't remember. But I had to sit there and reverse engineer. I had to, like, run, either c plus plus or Geth and then, like, put lots of logging information in to see what in the world was happening and then print out all the stuff and then find, like, the appropriate, you know, crypto libraries to to to mimic that. What was the the background on on that and how it went in so quickly? And, like, I there was nothing in the yellow paper about that at all. And when that came in, it was just a shock to me.

**[01:30] SPEAKER_01:** Just do you know with at which time this came? Because since I was focusing on the Ethereum virtual machine at the time, it was more like, okay. I know Gavin I think it was Gavin doing some optimization. He was always thinking about the long term. So if something would be 10% more efficient, we have to do this. Right? I think

**[01:35] SPEAKER_02:** so I remember, like, there was a dev p to p live p to p website that was released about that time. It still might have been after the giant change went in. So I I also we were working together regularly, you know, in the Bay Area at this time. And I think so Jim did, like, 96% of the changeover, but we had, at the time, like, separate processes. One was more like a client and more like a server. We merged them later. And, yeah, it was like so there was a big document, one describing, like, how the DHT for pure discovery would go in. But then you needed, like, a way to identify the peers, maybe. And this system kind of gave them an identity with, like, a you know, in in a SSL style. Like, basically, there was, like, a node cert in effect, and then you had to, like there were session keys and, you know, this this that and and the other. It was it took a long time to to implement that thing. But, yeah, I think maybe, Bob, you would know that the I think this was someone else wrote this big thing. This might have been Alex. Yeah. It was Alex.

**[01:45] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Did that. So saying about sort of documentation or whatever, there was a Wiki. Right? There was an Ethereum Wiki, and a number of things were were documented only on the Wiki. And I think these these kind of wire protocol pieces were were part of that. But, yeah, Alex Leverington was the first hire into that Berlin office, and he I mean, he works on a few different c plus plus things, but the main thing he's known for is is dev dev p two p, which was that that common underlying pit to peer pro protocol. Though you already had lib p two p, which is the transport for IPFS, that already existed at the time. So it was a a bit of not invented here going on. But but, yeah, he he was there for for dev con zero as well, and he spoke on Remember, Alex?

**[02:00] SPEAKER_01:** I was not too much into the peer to peer side of the code base. I was more into the EVM and solidity small contract side.

**[02:02] SPEAKER_00:** They tell you what, there's a bit of funny crossover with the later part of of of yours was Alex Leverington worked with John Garrett on a pro a project called Airlock.

**[02:05] SPEAKER_01:** So Remember that. I start later. Like, after we did our presentation and had the Slack and stuff going, they showed us videos of they were earlier than us. So, yes, they were actually tough time wise. Did this before we did, but I did not know about it at all. And so we did it more or less in parallel then, and we just launched a bit quicker, like, to just go to the public with the project. It has a bit from their side, it was more like a little tight project. Didn't look like a big company or intended to be. Yeah. I remember this project a lot.

**[02:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So I so so I think that was that was at the hackathon at the Bitcoin Expo in April 2014 that that that that they did that. And Stefan actually did an interview with them. You can see that on YouTube. You know, this is, like, talking about earlier Ethereum projects. You know? And this is, like, over a year before the mainnet. It's, like, so far back some of these. But but, yeah, like, some of that spec stuff was it was not in the yellow paper and it was just sort of floating around in a long time before there was real consolidation of that full client's bank. But you managed to do it anyway, Jim. Managed to build the client.

**[02:25] SPEAKER_03:** It was a busy week. But I I just it was just notable to me because it's fun. For at least from what I was seeing, it went from zero to one, like, overnight. I had never heard of it the night before, and then the next morning, it was, like, in the clients and working, and I couldn't connect anything.

**[02:30] SPEAKER_02:** Which is normally the pattern, but, yeah, they they exist. This one was, like, the biggest one time change that I can recall either. Yeah. Yeah. And,

**[02:35] SPEAKER_01:** this was prelaunch days. Things had to move fast. There was a lot of pressure going around. It was messy. There was not much coordination between the clients except for maybe some Skype groups. And at the end, yes, we thought that Kevin and Jeff just made decisions and executed as quick as they could. So this all changed after launch. Then things became a bit slow down and people consolidated, and every change was a big thing rightfully so. Yeah.

**[02:45] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So back on the timeline, so it was July 2015 that mainnet launched with the Frontier Hardhawk. And then as you touched on, you had Ming. So Ming's first official day was the August 1, 2015, at which point the foundation had been running on for a year or so and was close to out of money, you know, touching on your your thinking it would only last for a certain amount of time, you know, a year on that raise, which I think was around 16 or perhaps $18,000,000, was nearly all gone. So you had these quite hard decisions about, you know, what which part of this grand vision was was gonna be funded initially.

**[03:00] SPEAKER_01:** Right. And I never talked to her at the time. She felt like I have to clean up the whole mess, like, the paperwork and everything was totally messy working with lawyers, accountants, and so on and getting cleanup, basically, of the foundation. I mean, for me, I did expect it to last something like that. So it was for me, it was clear. They are not making any money. I didn't know, like, how big the reserve was. The detail, I think it was, like, I don't know, 5%, something in this range. Like, how much ease of the foundation hold. At the time, there wasn't that much value. It's a price like 50¢, €1 or something. So it was clear this would not last forever. So I was thinking about going back to my PhD or then I came across this idea about Slockit and becoming like building a company. And Slockit was the idea of maybe similar to AirLock. Smart contracts are essentially permission systems. 90% of a smart contract is who's allowed to do what. In case of ERC-twenty, it's just who's allowed to send the token or setting an allowance. And in terms of the DAO is who can vote for what and make decisions, and then money gets transferred. So what if we could put this permission system into IoT and then, like, who's allowed to switch on, off, use, change, admin rights, whatever. You put this into a small contract. And I thought that ether will never become a currency. Bitcoin was a digital currency. And, actually, if you think it talk to Ethereum people at the time, we we were not thinking about competing with Bitcoin. Bitcoin was a digital currency. We were building a platform for decentralized applications. Ether was just used to run it. I once heard the statement somewhere on Twitter where I once said, Bitcoin is a currency which needs a blockchain to function, and ethereum is a blockchain that needs a currency to function. This is I think it's very true. And so back I thought, okay. Ethereum will not be used as a currency, but it might be used as a currency for IoT devices. So instead of the Internet of Things, building the economy of things connected to IoT devices. Since most of the people in the room are still nerds and devs, they they love that kind of stuff. And there was also the kettle, wasn't it? The Yes. There was also a kettle. Maybe just turned a smart plug, like a power plug. We could also turn on, off, same protocol, same thing. So we should we just want to show it's not just the door lock company because, actually, we are not producing those. We're just connecting existing door locks to it. We also showed this idea of the universal sharing network. Everything which you can turn on, off, or lock up and unlock could be now connected to this network, and everybody could like, put almost everything in there, like a washing machine. You pay for using the washing machine or a bicycle lock, even a padlocks connected to it. So you could have it, like, your locker room and have a padlock in front of it and sell whatever's in there by having someone pay to open the padlock. This was the generic idea. We we got some VC money later after the like, in 2017. We build it. Nobody used it. It was, like, not just too early. It was not it was, like, everything for everyone all at once and, of course, nothing for no one. It felt like the app was not great, so we failed b two c wise at at Slockit. We then turned into more consulting projects to build Incube, which was an IoT client, made some money with that, and about 50 people actually deployed employed at the time in 2019 when we sold the company to blockchains, Jeffrey Burns. Another another story.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Mean, it was interesting you you're saying that. Yeah. You're muted, Bob. I cannot hear you. Or may is it maybe it's just me? Can you hear me? I I can still hear I hear him. Sorry. I have an issue here with my

**[03:50] SPEAKER_01:** this is me. System

**[03:51] SPEAKER_00:** so now I'm back. Can can you hear me? Can you hear me, Christophe?

**[03:52] SPEAKER_01:** No. I can have to switch back to let's

**[03:53] SPEAKER_03:** can you hear me now? Yeah. I can hear you. I could always hear you. For some reason Oh, we we've heard you. Hear you anymore. This was, like, me an hour ago, by the way.

**[03:55] SPEAKER_02:** Streamyard.

**[03:56] SPEAKER_01:** Okay. My audio is completely broken, so I will try to fix this. We can continue.

**[03:57] SPEAKER_03:** I basically had to, like, close it and come back again with my earphones, but I don't know.

**[03:58] SPEAKER_00:** Perhaps while we're waiting, Karen and Jim, you could talk a little bit about the the Strato launch at at that I thought you were gonna say you could sing a little song. I got nervous for a second there.

**[04:00] SPEAKER_02:** You know, okay. So in this period of time,

**[04:01] SPEAKER_01:** we were Yeah. Let me just reconnect. Just turn off and on again.

**[04:02] SPEAKER_02:** We were working as part of consensus, and one of the kind of marketing business development people at the time, Andrew Keyes, primarily had put together a partnership with Microsoft. I don't know if they ended up cosponsoring DevCon one per se. They had headline. Yeah. They so they put money in for that. Because they they also, like, paid for a bunch of PR and all those sort of things too. And so we had maybe a month or two lead time to work with them. And so the idea was that we you know, they've got cloud infrastructure. It's a good place to run blockchain nodes. They also have corporate clients that were actually very interested in the technology. And so we worked with, pretty closely with them in the run up to make our software available on the Azure cloud as did Roman, of the Java client, which to some extent was everyone's preference because people know Java, you know, in the the enterprise world. But I I think they we sort of stuck with it quite a bit longer than Roman did. And, you know so blockchain as a service was the big announcement. That was December 2015. There was a November. November. Was it November? It must have been December. Really? November. There was a once the announcement happened, there's a little tick in the Microsoft stock price, which we are, like, woah. Like, there's a little little bump there. And a lot lot of excitement for sure. I got a million phone calls after that. That was, like, you know, good good feeling of being the hotness that only happened so many times in someone's life. You know? But tremendous interest on the back of the blockchain as a service announcement. We did a live demo. It was so fun. The Internet, you know, gets in vogue to make fun of The UK these days on the on x, etcetera. The Internet in the conference facility was not so good. So I was very worried about the transactions actually going through, but they they did during the live demo. I think there's footage of it somewhere.

**[04:45] SPEAKER_01:** Can you hear us again there, Christophe? Yes. I can hear you. I hope you can hear me through. Okay.

**[04:46] SPEAKER_00:** So the demo that you did at DEFCON one, again, another iconic event because, yeah, you you have that physical smart lock just sitting there on your on your shelf, and, you know, it rotates it. Right? You know? Right. You did you did your transaction.

**[04:50] SPEAKER_01:** It was We just had a a Raspberry Pi connected via, I think, was sip or set wave back then to the door lock. And on the Raspberry Pi, we had actually an Ethereum client running. We had a smart contract on chain where you could send some money to it or ether, actually, and when it received some ether, it would open up. This was basically the demo. But it was cool to see something physical. You're talking about using Ethereum for, as I said before, the economy of things connected to IoT devices. Since most of the people in the room are still nerds and devs, they they love that kind of stuff. And there was also the kettle, wasn't it? The Yes. There was also a kettle. Maybe just turned a smart plug, like a power plug. We could also turn on, off, same protocol, same thing. So we should we just want to show it's not just the door lock company because, actually, we are not producing those. We're just connecting existing door locks to it. We also showed this idea of the universal sharing network. Everything which you can turn on, off, or lock up and unlock could be now connected to this network, and everybody could like, put almost everything in there, like a washing machine. You pay for using the washing machine or a bicycle lock, even a padlocks connected to it. So you could have it, like, your locker room and have a padlock in front of it and sell whatever's in there by having someone pay to open the padlock. This was the generic idea. We we got some VC money later after the like, in 2017. We build it. Nobody used it. It was, like, not just too early. It was not it was, like, everything for everyone all at once and, of course, nothing for no one. It felt like the app was not great, so we failed b two c wise at at Slockit. We then turned into more consulting projects to build Incube, which was an IoT client, made some money with that, and about 50 people actually deployed employed at the time in 2019 when we sold the company to blockchains, Jeffrey Burns. Another another story.

**[05:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, so on the timeline again, trying to judge it. So Stefan was, I I guess, chief communications officer or commit it wasn't until September 2015. That's when when he left. Had you had you left already by then? Can you remember? No. I didn't really

**[05:15] SPEAKER_01:** leave because I was technically a freelancer. Although I was working full full time for it, I didn't have, like, a formal employment contract. So I was continue to work, I think, until end of the year, and then then I just talked, well, did you just put down my hours, basically? If you need me, tell me. I just invoice what I'm doing. And but I was really leaving, actually, in December, January. I think the last invoice I heard was was for December. And then Stephane left or was being left, I mean, there's another conversation how he left the foundation is he was not he didn't agree with some people getting ether, which is another story for another day, I guess. And but he was really a crucial part in building up this Ethereum community. He put like, all this meetup culture. The meetup culture didn't really exist like that before. He was going from place to place, finding someone running meetups. So he was very important for that. And I I know I was a coder. I process Simon, who I cofounded, also a coder. We needed someone who can talk to the people, can do marketing and this stuff. And we said, well, he has to write address book. He knows the right people. Everybody knows him in the community. I think let's ask him if he wants to join us, and he did. And I think he was a very important part of making the DAO what it was. Later on, he did some messages, which I also didn't like. And so he felt a bit in disgrace what happened then. And I think the community was very, very hard with him because he was not always reacting maybe as he should in some situations after the hack. But, nevertheless, he played a very important part in the history of Ethereum and also, of course, of the DAO.

**[05:35] SPEAKER_00:** And and so so DEFCON was November 2015. So that was announced earlier in the year, I think I think, ended up being canceled, you know, because the the foundation were basically, you know, the same making out money piece. But then primarily with consensus funding and support, you know, hey. It's back on. So that was in that was in London and, you know, significantly larger event, obviously, than than Netcod Zero because it was the first, you know, public Ethereum outing with Microsoft as a as a headline sponsor. You have Nick speaking as well. Maybe Satoshi,

**[05:50] SPEAKER_02:** maybe not Satoshi. I don't think he's Grownie alluded to it in the presentation. It was funny.

**[05:52] SPEAKER_00:** So so, yeah, how how how was that for you then, Christophe? What what was, you know

**[05:55] SPEAKER_01:** It was totally different than f one zero because this this felt like now we're going out in the world and show it to the public. It was a fancy space in London. It was a really fancy, like, almost catatrol looking space, 22%. Again, we had and Gavin talking about the vision of Ethereum. And if you look at the talks being given, I really think people entrepreneurs today should just rewatch them because they all have been ten years too early. Be it about building identity solution, I think it was a boardroom doing, like, governance on chain, many, many consensus startups, of course. We as think about, well, let's connect IoT in the blockchain. Again, all of that ten years too early. I remember also Simon speaking about not not my brother. I forgot his last name. But Simon speaking about, like, everybody getting a token. Like, he we predicted this token economy would now thrive, which happened. So it was a great place to be. Everybody was looking into the future, building the future. It was very, very exciting. It was very important that consensus was funding this. It was crucial,