**[00:00] SPEAKER_08:** Okay, recording is in progress. Hello, everybody. Um, today, delighted to have Christoph with us. We did attempt to record this, Christoph and I, two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button. So, we spoke for an hour or so, and then it was not recorded. So, this is round two. So, hello, Christoph, how are you?

**[00:05] SPEAKER_01:** Hi, Rob. Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

**[00:10] SPEAKER_08:** Fantastic. Yeah, so Christoph and I, our paths crossed for the first time way back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then, I think, I crossed paths with you across a number of times since, and Kieran's too. Indeed. So, Christoph, what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

**[00:30] SPEAKER_01:** So, the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually, about self-organizing systems. So, like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So, I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which is just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. But the reason I came across it was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so, that's how I got into what's Bitcoin mining. And so, I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, read everything I could about it. And then, I came across the white paper from Vitalik, early 2014, something like January, February, in some Bitcoin forum somewhere. And I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decentralized currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper, Vitalik, if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy, except for NFTs, everything's in there, from DAOs to ENS, like domain names, the terms, and all of that. So, for me, it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin, but just not a currency, but everything else. And so, then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014, in summer, I read that the crowd sale was in 2014, right? Yeah, so, around the time the crowd sale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Wood. He was somewhere in Scandinavia, some conference there, um, the Nordics, and he talked about Ethereum. I loved it, and he said, you want to open up an office in Berlin, uh, looking for C++ developers. I was a C++ developer, so, in trajectory physics, it's 90% software development. So, I thought, well, I want to do this. So, I took my parental leave time, plus some vacation time, and passed my PhD for like three or six months, and said, I will return after I'm done. I thought this was just a short project because they raised money, maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so, then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD.

**[02:45] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, so, you never got to be a doctor?

**[02:46] SPEAKER_01:** No, I'm not a doctor. I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked for three years on that. But I also had, at the time, I think four or five kids. I needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student. So, I did software development as a side hustle, basically. And so, when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as parental leave time, then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD, is that I will maybe return one year later, because I thought the foundation would eventually run out of money, because they're not making any profits, they just raised donations, then they will spend them, and then it's over, then I can continue my PhD. That was originally the plan, just came different, I mean, I guess it's never too late, right? I actually sometimes think about if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing Tokenize.it. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works very well. And so, currently, I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon. No, because I mean, famously, you had, you know, Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitweissner as well. And I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well. There was definitely.

**[04:10] SPEAKER_04:** I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting. Similar background. It's actually the same, like theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I enjoyed it very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun.

**[04:25] SPEAKER_08:** Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He gets some browser issues.

**[04:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, well, he'll pop up, and we can add him, or if he's, I'll see, and then never mind. So, so, Christoph, in terms of, um, you know, getting hired into F Dev, and I'm sorry if I just missed it, so, how did that happen? Did you meet Gav at a meetup, did you say?

**[04:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, actually, I listened only to his talk. It was an online thing. I actually just wrote him an email, said, look, I would love to join Ethereum, love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet me in Kreuzberg, Berlin. So, which again is about two hours drive from here. So, I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation, he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build, and said, well, what can you do? And I just asked him, what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now? Like, give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So, he talked about the Ethereum virtual machine, which did some testing. I'm Jim. So, I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine, or like writing tests for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about, meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level, I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work, like it's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin, really having a specification. So, multiple clients could be built. And in there, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I think I read the paper six or seven times. I felt like I was one out of, I don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the C++ client, because this was his team. So, I was working also on the C++ code base. And so, Geth, PyEthereum, also the JavaScript version. And what else did we have? Like Haskell client and others. They're basically using my tests to see if they implemented the Ethereum machine, also the state transitions and block creation correctly.

**[07:20] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, yeah, so, I mean, just to have some timeline for the viewers, so, um, Vitalik wrote the white paper in November 2013. Um, various other people sort of joined in on the efforts, uh, in December, including, uh, including Gav and Jeff, who, uh, who started the C++ and Go clients, respectively, at the very end, oh my goodness, at the very end of December, kind of Christmas projects for them both. January 2014, he had sort of like the public announcement of Ethereum at the Bitcoin Miami conference. It was as early as April 2014 that Gav wrote the yellow paper, which is, you know, as you were saying, the sort of formal specification. You had the crowd sale between July and September, 2014. Um, so, then, yeah, you, you were coming in right after that, you know, so you had a wave of arrivals in September and October of that year, essentially because the crowd sale had happened. There was some money to actually hire people. Um, and then talking about, you know, where you, where you met there, uh, initially, that group, so F Dev were, and is, a company coordinating the development of Ethereum stuff, so it's a subsidiary of the Ethereum Foundation, um, were working initially in a co-working space, but then got off it, and it was between August and November of that year that the office was getting, like, you know, done up and tidied, and then in November, you had DevCon Zero, um, you know, the first conference, uh, you know, an internal one.

**[09:15] SPEAKER_01:** Where a lot of the people, that was their first sort of face-to-face meetings. How was DevCon Zero? How was that? What was that like? It was like a company retreat. So, it was not a public conference. Even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code. I remember, I was in his name again, wrote the book also about Ethereum, did Lexus, from IBM, oh, Henning, I think Henning, yeah, I think he was also there, just as an example of some people who were, like, reading about Ethereum, interested in joining. Of course, Joseph Rubin, Roman as well, right? Roman, Roman was there, Roman Adelaide with the Java client. But it was mostly developers. But also, I think Stefan Toal was already there. So, he had already the London team. So, it was like an internal Ethereum meeting, kind of a meetup, almost. I think three days or so, I don't know exactly, five days even. So, it was a full week. I was there for the full week, as far as I can remember. I did a presentation about testing, how the test suite is very important. Yes, we had Remix projects, Solidity project, I think, mostly started at the time. Gavin used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized applications, so building Swarm. I don't know if Swarm and RISCO was already launched there, but at least, take the generic idea, the MIS browser, so all those ideas are really sketched out there, like the technical roadmap, what we are going to build. Because we started just, of course, with the basic clients, like implementing the protocol, but he took it, like, kind of, what are we going to do in the next 12 months? Building the MIS browser, like, we mix all of those tools to have a platform for these and those applications. I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago, where you have those three circles, one circle is at one node, and you would see like they are connecting on the blockchain, using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages, like this whole picture was painted there. And there are people attending, I think around 50 people, plus minus 10, don't know the exact number, where most of the developers talking about code, coding there. Joseph, I remember him being there, saying, well, all of you, you will create your own companies, becoming millionaires. I remember Joseph talking about that. And I think, mostly, he was right. So, most of those people in the room, in one way or another, co-founded, founded, or early part of companies building on top of Ethereum in the years to come, yeah, yeah, um, let me see if I can do a little, a little screen share, no, no, I can't work at home, not, not to worry, but, but, yeah, there's this present button.

**[12:20] SPEAKER_04:** Is that not working? Yeah, I don't see that. Is that on the right-hand side somewhere or at the bottom? Maybe you have a different... For me, I appear on the top right, and below, there's a present button with like a plus sign.

**[12:30] SPEAKER_08:** But you're the host, maybe, never mind, never mind, I was just going to show the iconic photo of people at DevCon Zero, right? You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there, you know, so that's a classic... Ethereum photo. So, I was looking, sorry, there's, there's like 11 of the videos are still around from DevCon Zero, I think there were about 20 sessions, I'm still trying to dig out the others, some of them, including yours, I have not managed to find yet.

**[13:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was only about the test suite, how it built it, how people would use it, it was rather technical, there was not much of a vision in there, well, Lefteris presented on Emacs, so you're not the most boring talk, again, it was just some nerds starting, also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met, and, of course, the C++ team, they didn't know each other, because they're working in the co-working space, Lev Teres and others were there, but then, let's say, I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik, because he came there, then, of course, Jeffrey and his team, Stefan Tual and his team, Joseph Lubin, so, for me, it was the first time to meet all of them, and having talks, and since we really had time, five days, a small group of people, we actually do have time to eat together, to talk, so it was not so crowded, maybe as DevCon is today, very intimate, it was good, yeah, I mean, far from it.

**[14:30] SPEAKER_04:** One thing I can't quite remember, so, there was a time, there was an Ethereum Slack that was kind of open to the public, you know, there were a lot of people, the sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point, and I remember we were using Skype a lot in those days, just the team, and Vitalik liked to Skype, and then, at some point, I sort of lost the thread of, like, where the core, I can't remember, where the core development discussions were happening, and maybe I'll ask Jim to comment, also, just like those tests, we kept, like, getting them, and I think I'm thinking of some, a little bit earlier on, and we'd build them, and Jim was mostly working on them, and one update on the, like, passing percentage, which would always be between, like, 93 and 98%, and then something would change, you know.

**[15:20] SPEAKER_01:** But, yeah, like, where did the discussion, because, yeah, between, like, sale and DevCon 0, I think it kind of got a little bit, like, moved around, where the Dev discussion was, yeah, it was mostly Skype, we also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team, and so on, then, in a short time, they used the, it was a note-taker, which had a name also with E, something, Etherpad, yeah, something like this, right? There were some notes being written there, but the communication was really, I would say, 99% Skype for me, later on, we used a tool based on GitHub, what was the name of it? Gitter, it was called Gitter, Gitter came later, this was like the replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much, this was actually during the time when I was actually leaving, but it was done, used also by the C++ team, there, you had a channel per GitHub repo, this was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized, because, at the beginning, it was like one big repo with everything, then we had the submodules, it was so messy, and then, during this process, we got Gitter, but, yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

**[17:00] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, and then, annoyingly, that kind of means a lot of these early discussions are kind of, like, a bit lost, because nobody is using Skype, and Skype is getting, like, deleted, this is happening in February of next year, oh, I thought it happened already, so, you can still request a download, and I did, and then I haven't heard anything back, and want to do that, to see if I can get some of those, so, everybody, apply to download your Skype data, I remember, with Gitter, there was a discussion about this, that I was involved with, at the EF, later, which was saying, the problem with Skype is, it wasn't discoverable, you had to request to be added, but you had to know what was there, to be able to do that request, whereas Gitter, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories, so, if you're using a repo, there you go, there's a one-to-one channel with that, and it was discoverable, and archived, but, then, Slack, I think, was even earlier, oh, and there was the forum, as well, right? It was an Ethereum forum, too.

**[18:20] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was important, and then, Slack, I think, I got introduced to Slack, by Stefan Tual, when he created a community for the DAO, when he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack, and, at that time, it was not like today, like a business tool for the company, it was really communities, like, we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today, yeah, yeah, so, welcome, Jim, your technical problem, hi, sorry, I had some technical problems for a while there.

**[19:00] SPEAKER_04:** But, I don't know, I'm just listening to you guys, what happened, that brought the whole world to Zoom, suddenly? It was in waves, on my side, I don't know, I just woke up one day, and everything was Zoomed, from then on, species, like a statistical phase transition, I think it was two phases, I would always get invited to corporate, let's say, 2017 to 2019, when I was doing primarily BD, I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools, and, like, you know, what was the Cisco one? WebEx, that was horrible, I would get that a lot, Google Meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate, or something, and Zoom had the best quality, for a while, and I found that everyone picked Zoom, at the same time, like, mid-2018, let's say, I think it was just quality, to me, yes.

**[20:30] SPEAKER_08:** I mean, Microsoft really fumbled, right, Skype had got such a lead, for so long, but Zoom just seemed more reliable, whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on, yeah, and then, I guess, yeah, I guess I was under the impression, that, like, Zoom was for businesses,

**[20:45] SPEAKER_04:** I think that's, well, that is true, but it was just, that, still, I mean, this has gotten way better, in the last 10 years, but still, nothing really works, for reliable video, over the internet, it's just much better, than what existed, but there was a free version, always, and it would just, like, time you out, so, like, they had a fairly viral acquisition loop, where, like, I was just going to say, in the pandemic, uh, once, when people were locked down, it became a consumer tool, where people would have, like, large yoga classes, or, you know, sermons, or whatever, with, like, 500 people on a Zoom, and then, everyone, got called, yeah,

**[21:40] SPEAKER_02:** I remember it well, all of a sudden, like, my, my parents were, like, calling me up, and they were, like, we found this awesome new tool, you probably never heard of it, it's called Zoom.

**[21:50] SPEAKER_08:** Well, yeah, there were, like, ten, let's move on, from sharing, about video platforms, so, so, I look back, so, so, Jim's first commits, on, on the Haskell client, were mid-September, 2014, so, you know, a couple of months, ahead of, ahead of DevCon Zero, that you'd have the yellow paper, for, for, for, five months, at that time, and I did find, on our Slack, um, you know, a bit of a thread, where, where things, I think, from you, Christoph, were, being discussed, by Jim, I don't know, did you guys interact, directly, on, on testing, Jim, Christoph, not directly, not, as far as I can remember, I mean, maybe, there was some messages, I mean, it's about, it has been a while ago.

**[23:00] SPEAKER_02:** I could be wrong, I may have met you, briefly, in London, when we had that conference, but it would have been, like, quick greetings, at an after-party, or something.

**[23:10] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, 10 years ago, lots of people, sure, we were testing, GitHub repo, and we had all the major clients, using it, and I was interacting, mostly, asking, responding questions, I mean, of course, the C++ team, I was super close to, I used the C++ team, also, to pre-fill the tests, so, this was, per default, right, except, we found, there was a test failing, but, actually, C++ was wrong, so, sometimes, this happened, the test was not really failing, just C++ was wrong, but, in the maturity, of cases, C++ was right, so, we were just having those conversations, and we found tons of issues, we did, not just, in the beginning, I wrote those tests, using, actually, bytecode, the very first test, then, I went to a low-level, Lisp-like language, this was LLL, this was the, precursor, to Solidity, by Gavin, and then, in the end, actually, I had automated, like, fast testing, where I wrote software, that would create thousands of tests, that we had, some AWS, like, over 100 cores, of machines, constantly creating tests, and we had, always, some failing, on some versions, of gas, or other clients, so, this was, mostly, what I did, during, one and a half years.

**[25:10] SPEAKER_08:** Right, right, so, so, yeah, I mean, I guess, for the, for the viewers, something, that Ethereum chose, to do differently, from Bitcoin, was to have this specification, separate, from the client software, right, so, you know, when Bitcoin started, uh, it was the code, that happened, first, and the white paper, afterwards, but, but, the white paper, wasn't a protocol specification, so, um, you know, Gav, was doing, that yellow paper, spec, in parallel, with the C++ client, which was, sort of, the first one, while you have Vitalik, working, on the Python client, Jeff, working, on the Go, internally, but then, you've got, all these other clients, as well, right, so, the Java one, by Roman, I think, started, in about, April, or May, you know, ourselves, Jim, and Kieran, here, with, the Haskell client, starting, in September, you had JavaScript, as well, right, it's more like a library, I don't know, if it's really, like, a syncing client, but, they have, all the tools, so, you can, in your web app, kind of, integrate, parts of it, to verify, certain states, yeah, I mean, I think, maybe, they had, a syncing client, at some point, apart, from, it, obviously, couldn't, actually, keep up, but, theoretical, and, yeah,

**[27:00] SPEAKER_01:** And, yeah, at one point, there were eight different clients, right, if you want to, I can tell the story, of why we all, are using Geth, today, yeah, this is not, absolutely, not a given, at the time, yeah, of course, everyone had different opinions, but the C++ client, was really, the fastest, the most solid one, passing all the tests, and so on, but Gavin, always, wanted to add new features, we went to a refactoring, and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad, for this kind of software, and then, the time came, for the security audit, because everybody wants to launch Ethereum, now, and we said, before we launch it, those clients, need to have a proper security audit, by an external company, and one of the companies, doing this, was Deja Vu, in Seattle, so, I actually, went there, with a team, for the audit, and because Gavin, wanted to build, some more features, he said, well, let's just, Geth, can go first, let's first audit the Go client, when they are done, I'm done, with the features, I wanted to build, and then, we're going into the audit, for the C++ client, so, Geth, was audited, they had some issues, they fixed the issues, and now, it's fine, and so, there was, technically, no reason, why not, well, actually, we could launch Ethereum, now, we have a fully audited client, testnet, is running, for a while, no major issues, no failing tests, for a long time, so, why would we wait, for the C++ client, to be audited, I mean, they all, really, had the pressure, of money, was running out, we need to launch, now, so, and then, the decision, was made, let's launch, this Geth, they can still use C++, it's just not audited, let's say, in two months, or so, the audit, is done, and then, they can use C++ even more, if they want, but then, the big mistake, was, in my view, when they made this announcement, of, you can start, now, they recommended, using Geth, because it was the audited one, so, almost everybody, won Geth, this was, like, we started, with almost 100% Geth, and then, there was just a minor, other clients, using, only very few, did use them, and so, after the audit, was done, nobody switched, for, like, sure, but Geth, is running, I'm synced, like, what's the issue, why should I switch, and so, we had this, 19-10, or 18-20, distribution, it just stayed, like this, so, if Gavin, would have been, either, say, let's just do the audit, now, and we just have both audited, and then start, maybe, we would have 50-50, or even, the other way around, if they would have, first audited, in C++, and Ethereum, would have been launched, without a Geth audit, they would have received, a total switch, and then, of course, money, was going low, in the foundation, they had to reduce the team, and because Geth, was the most used one, there were some issues, with Gavin, another story, maybe, have a talk, with him, and so, in the end, Ming, decided, to basically, kick out, the complete C++ team, this was, then, shortly, before DevCon 1, so, something, like, November, October-ish, but, yeah, I think, the reason, for that, was also, C++ team, wasn't, really, that used, also, there are other reasons, as well, but, you can see, how a tiny thing, can have, such big consequences, down the road, like, him, doing Polkadot, today, and all of that, and he was great, I mean, I really, I still think, I think, maybe, we would have had, a mistake, in sharding, way earlier, if Gavin, would have stayed, so, without him, they moved slower, and, of course, the price, went up, there were no security, relevant things, so, changes, happened, not quickly, anymore, but take more time, and so on, but, I think, this was a big loss, for Ethereum, that Gavin, left, basically, in 2015.

**[31:40] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, it's amazing, the client side, was the cause, I think, it was part of it, the process, maybe, started, with the Red Wedding, which we discussed, in some other early days, of Ethereum episodes, I remember, very clearly, in the room, it was like two weeks, into my Ethereum tenure, at that time, that he was talking, about brain drain, if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation, and not going to have a commercial arm.

**[32:20] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, there were more issues, than that, definitely, this was not the deciding part, but it was, like, those things, were adding up, I remember, that Gavin, had this idea, of turning the foundation, into a DAO, and then, having, a for-profit entity, next to it, which would build things, and make money, so, there were many different commercial ideas, at the time, so, he then, basically, started, on his own, East Core, I remember, he wanted to have me, as part of it, but I decided, to do Zlockit, at the time, so, that's why, I did not become, a co-founder, of East Core, another story, we can go into this, if you want, you know, what happened, after that, but, there are many reasons, we are part of it, I think, also, him, and Ming, didn't, really, get along, too much, there was not, really, a trust relationship, going on, of course, money, running out, different visions, of how Ethereum, should evolve, technically, and economically, if you want, all played a role, but, I think, it was just one part, that the C++ client, was not, that much, was not, really, used, that much, and the reason, for that, was Geth, being audited, and being launched, without an audit, for the C++ team, yeah, uh, I mean, talking, about features, so, so many things, happened, right,

**[35:00] SPEAKER_08:** Gav, had this period, of incredible productivity, between, that December, and that April, of getting, from nothing, just having, the white paper, all the way, through, to having, a working client, having, the yellow paper, as you mentioned, you know, there's this diagram, showing, how, how Whisper, and Ethereum, and Swarm, were intended, uh, to fit together, and, I, I found, some more timing, on that, was, so, Swarm, was envisaged, by Daniel Nagy, as far back, as 2011, know, it was, a, it was an idea, he'd been working, on, for, like, three years, before that, I, I spotted, on the Whisper presentation, that Gav, did, that, that was a pre-Ethereum idea, as well, so, it was, probably, only, when all of these people, came together, it was, like, well, you've got, this storage idea, you've got, this blockchain, kind of, like CPU, databasey, idea, and, then, if you have, messaging, you know, all of these things, can fit together, but, it's always, it's also, we're going to build, our own IDE, as well, browser, Ms. browser, I'm sorry, plus, the Ms. browser.

**[37:00] SPEAKER_01:** The complete thing, it's a complete platform, for decentralized applications, end to end, this was the big mission, and also, this was, what attracted me, to it, I mean, having someone, having, a really proud vision, of a new internet, if you want, that's what he called, that, three, that's where the term comes from, because it was not, just a little tool, it was a complete new internet, called Web3, from data, to messaging, to smart contract, blockchains, to IDE, to browser,

**[38:00] SPEAKER_08:** And this vision, was very, very attractive, this attracted, all the talent, and the developers, because they loved building, that, yeah, I mean, it's a very, very expensive vision, and, yeah, it was, you know, Gav, Gav, as you say, you know, Web3, was him, prior to that, the language, I saw, was really, about Bitcoin, with smart contracts, you know, that was really, sort of, the genesis, of Vitalik, going through, that journey, of colored coins, and master coins, and meta protocols, and that kind of positioning, of Bitcoin, is a calculator, and Ethereum, is a smartphone.

**[39:20] SPEAKER_01:** But, it was all, that kind of, like, blockchains, and applications, right, it wasn't, that full Web3 vision, which I think, that really came, from Gavin, you have to attribute, this to him, he was having, this big vision, this attracted, also, too many people, it attracted, also, that, even the business people, they could, now, understand, what it, actually, is, other than, this was, just, like, tech, let's see, but, this is, like, a broad vision, of how business, function, how, like, this new financial world, would happen, they could understand, this, far better.

**[40:40] SPEAKER_08:** Than having, this iPhone, calculator, comparison, this was, maybe, a nice technical thing, yeah, yeah, but, then, for it, being, a very expensive vision, that's, a lot of work, sure, but, I just thought, somewhere, that's it, so, I mean, you know, talking, about Gavin, the features, so, yeah, there's a ton, of stuff, on that, on that C++ team, Aleph, Aleph zero, as well, and Aleph one, so, Aleph one, being, the GUI, miner, um, and then, I know, how would you describe, ls0, kind of, the first interface, to the blockchain, in some way, like, the first graphical interface, to a