**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. Recording is in progress, it says. So hello, everybody. Today, delighted to have Christophe with us. We did attempt to record this Christophe and I two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button. So we spoke for an hour or so, and then it was not recorded. So this is round two.

**[00:12] SPEAKER_01:** So hello, Christophe. How are you? Hi, Bob. Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

**[00:23] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. Yeah. So so Christophe and I, you know, our paths crossed, for the first time, way back in 2015, when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. This was around the time that Christophe was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think I crossed paths with him across a number of times since and too. Indeed. So so, Christophe, what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_01:** So in we actually this the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self-organizing systems. So like, biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which has just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. And but the the reason I came across this was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into what what's Bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, did read everything I could about it, and then I came across the white paper from MetaMask early 2014, some start January, February in some Bitcoin forum somewhere. And I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decent currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper of Viterlik, I mean, if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy. Except except of NFTs, everything's in there from DAOs, from ENS, like, names as domain names as terms and all of that. So for me, it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin, but just not a currency, but everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014 summer. I went is it the crowdsale was in February 2014? Right? Right. Yeah. The crowdsale so around the time the crowdsale happened, I went did watch a video from Gavin Woods. He was somewhere in the Scandinavics, some conference there, the Nordics. And he talked about Ethereum. I loved it. And he said he want to open up an office in Berlin looking for C++ developers. I was a C++ developer. So in trajectory physics, it's 90% software development. So I said, well, I wanna do this. So I took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my PhD for, like, three or six months and said, I will return after I'm done. I thought this just a short project because they raised money maybe six maybe maybe twelve months, eighteen months or so, then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD. So I worked there with Ethereum. This is it's Kevin Woods. It was a great time. And then just decided to stay. It was so exciting.

**[03:59] SPEAKER_00:** So so you never got to be a doctor

**[04:02] SPEAKER_01:** No. I'm not a doctor. I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked, like, for three years on that. And but I also had at the time, I think, four or five kids. And needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student, so I did some software development as a side hustle, basically. And so when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as a parent leave time, and then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD. Is that I will maybe return one year later because I thought the foundation eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits. They just raised donations, then they will spend them, then it's over, Then I can continue my PhD. That was originally a plan. Just came different.

**[04:56] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, I guess it's never too late. Right?

**[04:59] SPEAKER_01:** I actually sometimes think about it if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing tokenize it. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works very well. So, currently, I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

**[05:21] SPEAKER_00:** No. Because, I mean, famously, you had you know doctor Kevin Wood and doctor Christian as well. And I think Yeah. I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well. There was definitely.

**[05:34] SPEAKER_02:** I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting. Similar

**[05:39] SPEAKER_01:** background. It's actually the same. To like, theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I tried very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun.

**[05:52] SPEAKER_02:** Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He can get some browser issue.

**[06:01] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. Well, he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's if he's I'll see. Then then then never mind. So so so, Christophe, in terms of getting hired into f dev, and I'm sorry if I just missed it. So how did that happen? Did you meet Gavin for a meetup, did you say? Yes. I actually, no. I listened only to his talk. It's supposed to be online thing.

**[06:32] SPEAKER_01:** I actually just wrote him an email. Said, look. I would love to join with you. I love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet me in Kreuzberg Berlin. So which, again, is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation, he was talking about all the stuff they were gonna build and said, well, what can you do? And I just asked him, what's like, the most complicated stuff you have right now? Like, give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum virtual machine, which did some testing. So so I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or, like, writing test for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level. I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work. Like, it's a such a great specification different from Bitcoin, really having a specification so multiple clients could be built. In India, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I think I read the paper six, seven times. I felt like it was one out of I don't know 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the C++ client because this was his team. So I was working also on the C++ code base. And so gas, py, Ethereum, also the JavaScript version, and and what else did you have? Like, Haskell client and others. They're basically using my test to see if they implemented machine, also the state transitions, and block creation correctly.

**[08:26] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. So just to have some timeline for the viewers. So Vitalik wrote the white paper in November 2013. Various other people sort of joined in on the efforts in December, including Geth and Jeff who started the C++ and Go clients respectively. At the very end oh my goodness. At the very end of of December, kind of Christmas projects from both. January 2014, you had sort of like the public announcements of the Ethereum at the Bitcoin Miami conference. It was as early as April 2014 that gave wrote the yellow paper, which is as you were saying, the formal specification. You had the crowdsale between July and September 2014. So then yeah, you you were coming in right after that, you know, so you had a wave of arrivals in September and October of that year essentially because the crowdsale had happened. There was some money to actually hire people. And then talking about where you where you met there, initially, that group, so were and these are a company coordinating the development of Ethereum stuff. So it's a subsidiary of the Ethereum Foundation. Right. They were working initially in a coworking space, but then got off it. And it was between August and November of that year that the office was getting like you know done up and tidied. And then in November, you had DevCon Zero, you know, the first conference an internal one where a lot of the people that was their first sort of face to face meetings. So how was Devcon Zero?

**[10:39] SPEAKER_01:** How was that? What was that like? It was like a company retreat. So it was not a public conference. We did have even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code. I remember the I was in his name again, wrote the book also about Ethereum, that Lexus of IBM Oh, Henning Henning I think Henning. Yeah. I think he was also there just as an example of some people who are, like, big about Ethereum, interested in joining. Of course, chose a well. Right? Roman Roman was there. With the Java clients. But it was mostly developers, but, also, I think Stephane was already there. So we had already the London team. So it was like an internal Ethereum meeting. We meet kind of a meetup almost, I think, three days or so. I don't know exactly. Five five days even. So week. Yeah. It was a full week. I was there for the full week as far as I can remember. I did a presentation about testing, how the test suite is very important. Yes. We had remix projects, solidity project, I think mostly started at the time. Gethmind used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized application, so building Swarm. I don't know if Swarm and risk was already launched there, but at least like the generic idea, the Mist browser. So all those ideas are really sketched out there, like, the technical roadmap, what we are going to build. Because we started just of course with the basic clients, like implementing the protocol, but he took it, like, kind of what are we going to do in the next twelve months? Build the Mist browser, like, remix of those tools to have a platform for decent SaaS applications. I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago, where you have those three circles, one circle as Yeah. One node. And you would see, like, they are connecting on the blockchain using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages, and you like this whole picture was painted there. And there are people attending, I think, around 50 people, plus minus 10, don't know exact number, where mostly developers talking about code, coding there, shows if I remember him being there say, well, all of you, you will create your own companies becoming millionaires. I remember Joseph talking about that. And I think mostly he was right. So most of those people in the room, in one way or another, cofounders, founders, or were early part of companies building on top of Ethereum in the years to come.

**[13:26] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Let me see if I can do a little screen share. No. Never mind. I can't work out how. Not to worry. But yeah, there's this present button.

**[13:40] SPEAKER_02:** So not worried. Yeah. I don't see that. Is that on the right hand side somewhere or at the bottom? You maybe have a different for me, I appear on the top right and below. And to the right of me below, there's a present button with, like, a plus.

**[13:52] SPEAKER_00:** Like, you post maybe. Never mind. Never mind. I was just gonna show the iconic photo of people at that con zero. Right? You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there, you know. So that's a classic Ethereum photo. So I was looking There's like 11 of the videos that's still around from devcon zero. I think there were around 20 sessions. I'm still trying to dig out the others. Some of them, including yours, I have not managed to find yet.

**[14:23] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. It was only about the test suite, how it build it, how people would use it. It was rather technical. There was not much of a vision in there. So Well, left terrorist presented on Emacs,

**[14:36] SPEAKER_00:** so you're not the most boring talk.

**[14:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Again, it was just some nerds starting it also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met. And, of course, the C++ team, they didn't know each other because they're working in the coworking space, left terrace and others. They're there. But then let's say I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik because he came there. Then, of course, Jeffrey and his team, Stefan and his team, Joseph. So it was for me, it was the first time to meet all of them and having talks. And since we we had time, five days, a small group of people, we actually do have time to eat together to talk. So it was not not so crowded maybe as Stefan is today. Very intimate. It was good.

**[15:29] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, four hours.

**[15:32] SPEAKER_02:** One thing I can't quite remember. So there was a time there was an Ethereum Slack that was kind of open to the public. You know, there were a lot of people. The sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point. And we were you know, I I remember we were using Skype a lot in those days. I just the team. And like, the telec liked the Skype. And then at some point, I sort of lost the thread of like, where the core like, I can't remember where the core development discussions were happening. And I'll I'll maybe I'll ask Jim to comment. Also, just like those tests, we kept, like, getting them. And I think I'm thinking of some a little bit earlier on, and we'd build them. And Jim was mostly working on them and would update on the, like, passing percentage, which would always be between, like, 93-98%, and then something would change. You know? But yeah, like, where did the discussion because, yeah, between sale and DevCon Zero, I think it kind of got a little bit it, like, moved around where the dev discussion was. It mostly

**[16:27] SPEAKER_01:** Skype. We also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team and so on. Then in a short time, they used the it was a notetaker, which had a name also with e something where you could like Etherpad? Etherpad, something like this. Right? There were some notes created there, but the communication was really, I would say, 99% Skype for me. Later on, we used a tool based on GitHub. What was the name of it? GitHub.

**[16:53] SPEAKER_00:** It was called GitHub. GitHub

**[16:55] SPEAKER_01:** came later. This was like the new replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much. It was actually during the time when I was actually leaving. But it was done used also by a C++ team. There you had a channel per GitHub repo. This was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized because at the beginning, it was like one big repo with everything. They made the submodules. It was so messy. And then during this process, we got GitHub. But yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

**[17:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And and then annoyingly, that kind of means a lot of these early discussions, they're kind of a bit lost because nobody is is using Skype. And Skype is getting like deleted. This is happening in February. Year. Oh, I thought it happened already. It's just You can still request to download, and I did, and then I haven't heard anything back and wanna do that to see if I can get some of those. So everybody apply to download your your Skype data. I I remember the with Geth, there was a discussion about on this that I was involved with at the EF later, which was saying the problem with Skype is it wasn't discoverable. You know, you had to add you had to request to be added, but you had to know what was there to be able to do that request. So it was a bit of a chicken and egg situation. Whereas Geth, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories. So if you're using a repo, there you go. There's a one-to-one channel with that, and it was discoverable and archived. But then Slack, I think, was even earlier. So oh, and there was the forum as well. Right? It was an Ethereum forum too.

**[18:23] SPEAKER_01:** There was a forum. And then Slack, I think I got introduced to Slack by when he created a community for the DAO. When he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack. And at that time, it was not like today, like, a business tool for the company. It was really communities. Like, we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today.

**[18:42] SPEAKER_00:** Welcome, Jim.

**[18:43] SPEAKER_03:** Your technical problem Sorry. I had some technical problems for a while there. But I don't know. I'm just listening to you guys. What what happened that brought the whole world to Zoom suddenly?

**[18:56] SPEAKER_02:** It was in waves. Look. For on my side

**[19:00] SPEAKER_03:** I don't know. I just I just woke up one day, and everything was Zoom Yeah. From then on. Like a native

**[19:05] SPEAKER_02:** species, like a statistical phase transition. You know, I think it was it was two phases. I would always get invited to corporate, like, you know, let's say 2017 to 2019 when I was doing primarily BD, I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools. And, like, you know, what is the Cisco one was the Webex. That was horrible. I would get that a lot. Google meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate or something even though it was okay. And Zoom had the best quality for a while, and I found that everyone picked Zoom at the same time, like, 2018,

**[19:43] SPEAKER_00:** let's say. I think it was just quality to me. Like, this I mean, Microsoft really fumbled. Right? Skype had got such a lead for so long, but Zoom just seemed more reliable, whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on. Yeah. And then I mean, I guess yeah.

**[19:56] SPEAKER_03:** I guess I was under the impression that like, Zoom is for businesses.

**[20:00] SPEAKER_02:** I think that's well, that is true. But it was just that still I mean, this this has gotten way better in the last ten years, but still nothing really works for reliable video over the the the Internet. It's it's just much better than than what existed. But there was a free version always, and it would just like time you out. So, like, they had a fairly viral acquisition loop where, like and I was just gonna say, in the pandemic, once when people were locked down, it became a consumer tool where people would have, like, yard large yoga classes or, you know, sermons or whatever with, like, 500 people on a Zoom, and then everyone got called. Yeah.

**[20:43] SPEAKER_03:** Remember it well. All of a sudden, like, my my parents were, like, calling me up, and they're like, we found this awesome new tool. You probably never heard of it. It's called Zoom.

**[20:51] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[20:52] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah, there were, like, 10. Let's move on from sharing about video platforms. So so I look back. So so Jim's first commits on the Haskell client were mid September 2014. So, you know, a couple of months ahead of devcon zero, but you'd have the yellow paper for five months at that time. And I did find on our Slack, you know, a bit of a thread where things from you, Christophe, were being discussed by Jim. I don't know. Did you guys interact directly at all on testing, Jim, Christophe?

**[21:30] SPEAKER_01:** Not directly. That's not as far as I can remember. I maybe there were some messages. I mean, I've it's about it has been a while ago.

**[21:40] SPEAKER_03:** I could be wrong. I may have met you briefly in London when we had that Possibly. Conference. But it would have been like hi you know quick quick quick greetings at a part you know an after party or something.

**[21:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, ten years ago, lots of people sure. We did. We were the testing GitHub repo, and we had all the major clients using it. And I was interacting mostly asking responding questions. I mean, of course, the C++ time, I was super close to. I used the C++ time also to prefill the test. So this was per default right except we found there was a test failing but it should but actually C++ was wrong. So sometimes this happened. The test was not really failing just C++ was wrong. But in the maturity of cases, C++ was right. So we were just having those conversations. We found tons of issues. We did not just in the beginning I wrote those tests. We used to actually bytecode the very first test. Then I went to a low level list like language. This was LLL. This was the precursor to Solidity by Gavin. And then in the end, actually, I had automated like fast testing where I wrote software that would create thousands of tests that we had some AWS, like over 100 cores of machines constantly creating tests. We had always some failing on some versions of gas or other clients. So this was mostly what I did during one and a half years.

**[23:17] SPEAKER_00:** Right. Right. So so yeah, I mean, I guess for the viewers something that Ethereum chose to do differently from Bitcoin was to have this specification separate from the client software. Right? So when Bitcoin started it was the code that happened first and the white paper afterwards but but the white paper wasn't a protocol specification. So was doing that yellow paper spec in parallel with the C++ client, which is sort of the the first one while you have the talent working on the Python client Jeff working on go internally but then you've got all these other clients as well Right? So Java one by Roman I think started in about April or May. You know ourselves and Karen here with a Haskell client starting in September.

**[24:05] SPEAKER_01:** Right. If you want to, I can tell the story of why we all are using Geth today. Yeah. We do. Not absolutely not a given. Like at the time, I we mean, course everyone had different opinions, but the C++ client was really the fastest, the most solid one passing all the tests and so on. But Gavin always wanted to add new features like to a refactoring, and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad for this kind of software. And then the time came for the security audit because everybody wants to launch Ethereum now. And he said before we launch it those clients needs to be have a proper security audit by an external company. And one of the companies doing this was in Seattle. So I actually went there with the team for the audit. And because Gavin wanted to build some more features, he said well let's just yes Can go first. Let's first audit the Go client. When they are done I'm done with the the features I want to build and then we're going into the audit for the C++ client. So Geth was audited picked the heads of issues they fixed the issues and now it's time And so there was technically no reason why not well actually we could launch Ethereum now We have a fully audited client test that is running for a while no major issues no failing tests for a long time So why would we wait for the C++ client to be audited Maybe they all really had the pressure of money was running out We need to launch now. So and then the decision was made Let's launch the Geth They could still use C++ It's just not audited. Let's say in two months or so the audit is done and then they can use C++ even more if they want. So but then the big mistake was in my view when they made this announcement of you can start now they recommended using Geth because this was the audited one. So almost everybody won Geth. Was like we started with the almost 100% Geth and then some just some minor other clients use it Only very few did use them And so after the audit was done nobody switched For like sure But Geth is running I'm synced Like what's the issue Why should I switch And so we had this 1910 or 1820 distribution. It just stayed like this So if Gethermind would have been either say let's just do the audit now and we just if both audit at then step stop maybe we would have fifty fifty Or if even the other way around if they would have first audit the C++ and Ethereum would have been launched without a guest audit like you would have to see a total switch And then of course money was going low in the foundation They had to reduce the team. And because Geth was the most used ones there were some issues with Gavin Another story maybe I have a talk with him And so in the end Ming decided to basically kick out the complete C++ date This was then in short shortly before DEFCON one so something like November September ish So but yeah I think the reason for that was also C++ type wasn't really that used Also there are other reasons as well But you can see how a tiny thing can have such big consequences down the road like him doing Polkadot today and all of that And he was great. I mean I really really I still think maybe we'd have had proof of stake in sharding way earlier if Geth would have stayed So without him they moved slower course the price went up They've got better security relevant things so changes happened not quickly anymore but take more time and so on But I think this was a big loss for Ethereum that Gethermind left basically in 2015.

**[27:36] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. That's crazy. Amazing The client side was the cause. I think it was part of it. But it you know having the process maybe started with the red wedding which we discussed in some other early days of Ethereum episodes Like he I remember very clearly in the room It was a lot it was like you know two weeks into my Ethereum tenure at that time that he was talking about brain drain if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation

**[28:07] SPEAKER_01:** and not going to have a commercial arm Yes. There are more issues to that Definitely Like this was not the deciding part but it was like those things were adding up I know I remember that Gavin had this idea of turning the foundation into a DAO and then having for profit entity next to it which would build things and make money So there were many different commercial ideas at the time So the he then basically started on his own I remember he wanted to have me as part of it but I decided to do Slacket at the time So that's why I did not became a cofounder of Ethereum Another story We we can go into this if want You know you know what happened after that But this there are many reasons we are part of it I think also him and Ming didn't really get along too much There was not really a trust relationship going on Of course money running out different visions of how Ethereum should evolve technically and economically if you want all played a role But I think it was just one part that the C++ client wasn't that much wasn't reused that much And the reason for that was gas being audited we launching without an audit for the C++ client.

**[29:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, talking about features so many things happened Right You know have this period of incredible productivity between that December and that April of getting from nothing like just having the white paper all the way through to having a working client you know having the yellow paper As you mentioned you know there's this this diagram showing how how whisper and ethereum and swarm were intended to fit together And I I found some more timing on that was so swarm was envisaged by Daniel Nagy as far back as 2011 You know it was a it was a year an idea he'd been working on for like three years before that Spotted on the whisper presentation that Gavin did that he that that was a pre Ethereum idea as well So it's probably only when all of these people came together it was like well you've got this storage idea You've got this blockchain kind of like CPU database y idea And then if you have messaging you know all of these things can can fit together But it's always we're gonna build our own IDE as well Browser.

**[30:12] SPEAKER_01:** Yep. Browser. Browser I'm sorry? Plus the Browser The complete thing It's a it's a complete platform for decentralized applications end to end This was the big mission And also this was what attracted me to it I mean having someone having a really proud vision of a new Internet if you want that's what he called web That's where the term comes from because it was not just a little tool It was a complete new Internet called Web three from data to messaging to smart contract blockchains to IDE to browser And this vision was very, very attractive This attracted all the talent and the developers because they loved building that.

**[30:51] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean it's a very very expansive vision And and and yeah you know Gav as you say you know web three was him Prior to that the language I saw was really about Bitcoin with smart contracts You know that was really sort of the genesis of the talent going through that that journey of colored coins and master coins and meta protocols and that that kind of positioning of Bitcoin as a calculator and Ethereum's a smartphone but it was all that that full

**[31:24] SPEAKER_01:** web three vision which I think And that really came from Geth. Geth We have to attribute this to him He was having this big vision This attracted also to many people This attracted also the even the business people they could now understand what it actually is Other than this it just tech Let's see But this is like a broad vision of how business function how like this new financial world would happen happen They could understand this far better than having this iPhone calculator comparison This was maybe a nice technical thing

**[31:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah but then for it being a very expansive vision that's that's a lot of work.

**[32:00] SPEAKER_01:** Sure But it just starts somewhere

**[32:02] SPEAKER_00:** That's it So I mean you know talking about Gavin the features so yeah there was a ton of stuff on that C++ team Aleph zero as well and Aleph one So aleth one being the gwei miner And then al I don't How would you describe aleth zero?

**[32:18] SPEAKER_01:** Kind of first interface to the blockchain in some way Like the the first graphical interface to a blockchain client What could it do Of course it could mine You could deploy a smart contract You could visit and make it visible somewhat what's happening there It was not really end user friendly in any way but it was just a replacement of what people just do on the command line Usually command line run your client has some input has some output and it was the first kind of traffic use interface graphical user interface replacing command line.

**[32:51] SPEAKER_00:** But I guess I guess it's sort of like a combination of like what you have with the block explorer now apart That's from that's like a view only and this was both of you and a and a and a do.

**[33:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yep

**[33:05] SPEAKER_00:** But yeah those gooey clients.

**[33:07] SPEAKER_01:** So Much much more influential than the Mist browser The Mist browser I think there's a video by Alex It's like a ten minute video on YouTube They had this prototype They're not working yet but just like take take it until you make it the vision of the Mist browser And this also really made us understand how Ethereum could work for the end user Having different identities connected to wallets again would load those steps There's an IPFS hash or if all the swarm one day the app was loading and you could do some finance stuff there This gave us an idea of what Ethereum could be It was so you have to think Vitalik gave us a rather technical vision and prod intellectual thing but Geth gave us his prod In that vision Alexander gave us this very concrete thing what an end user could do with that in the next six to twelve months maybe That's very important.

**[34:01] SPEAKER_00:** Just yesterday actually so there was there was an announcement from ENS swap about them sort of turning on fees and and doing various things that are more kind of to do with you know the the company the protocol time together And I saw a reaction to that saying well I'm never gonna you know I'm never gonna use this again You know you can't like you know you can't extract ongoing revenue out of a protocol And and this person then said it's time for mist two Totally I've said this before We need the full vision so that you've got hosted and the apps and you don't need a server and you don't need a company and you can just make this pure you know immutable smart contract wrapped wrapped in a UI that's that's all decentralized.

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** Think we can have a miss two I would love to see this I heard people thinking about this before I don't know if anybody really started the project but it should be totally doable today It's not rocket science You know

**[34:52] SPEAKER_02:** let me interject We ourselves have made sort of different attempts at this where like you just download the app from the chain itself pretty much And it worked fine and I guess it just wasn't as much a differentiator Like it made things a little slower to do it this way all the time I also think like one of the people that took the web three the world computer vision sort of seriously was like the Internet computer people And I don't know anyone that uses Internet computer But like every once in a while I see tweets about it and I'm like that sounds great Yeah Sort of the app from the chain You know it's got some cool like smart contracting language in it And I guess there's just no demand if it like slows the app down even slightly And I think MetaMask and then many other wallets were sort of enough Still not the whole thing but but yeah I guess it's like you gotta get people to use it if you want it to be

**[35:42] SPEAKER_01:** maximally cypherpunk too And fully agree And that's Yeah The the the the problem with this is you only need it if you really need it Meaning if Uniswap failed Interface is not there It's like a backup But it's not what you want to use daily And if I say if you remember maybe Q you where they have DefCon one When they presented MetaMask my first thought was oh this is totally away from the vision Like how can you not run a full node How can you how dare you like to just serve over RPCs and almost not not a scam but it it was like not what we intend to build Today it's like this is a decentralized version of it This is like non custodial MetaMask or the good guys compared to all the others Like see how like the few shifted over the years Like then it was absolutely required to run a full node with the missed browser This this is how it's done And now we have met MetaMask plus and Fora and today this is really the version which is viewed as the original non custodial Ethereum vision You see how things are shifting basically But yes you only need those things if things are falling apart Like just as an example so many people use the noses safe Let's say the noses safe UI is gone Technically it shouldn't be a problem to run another one but it really needs be something on IPFS It needs to be something which can self host so I can still access my wallet without going to the command line So for those reasons you need it And the misprocessor was sort of as the fallback for every dapp Like of course you can have your application run on a normal com domain on a on AWS Fine But if you could serve serve the same app in a decentralized fashion as a backup this would be great because you could still use it if the company that's a Uniswap the company fails if someone builds a nice Uniswap UI served by IPFS directly interacting with the smart contracts

**[37:26] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah Yeah That's that's fair Also I mean Uniswap I think is controversial I know Jim wanted to say something controversial because they had the company level fee skim And then so I think they've turned the on chain fee on I haven't read that for detail

**[37:41] SPEAKER_00:** I believe so because one of the replies was saying okay So how are your like shareholders gonna like that

**[37:50] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah Okay Fair enough

**[37:52] SPEAKER_00:** Well Hopefully they hold a bunch of the uni and it will you know it should be sort of benefit of all stakeholders So yeah just sort sort of this interesting kind of contrast right between completely immutable you know force of nature smart contracts versus more permission more tied to a company more source of wanting to have fees for maintenance kind of question I mean it got you know it's like treasuries I guess either on or this opens up the questions

**[38:21] SPEAKER_01:** how should the Ethereum app be built economically And this is also a question being answered during that time This was being the DAO was one approach of it should be fully on chain All the revenue should be on chain There should be no for profit entity directly attached to it And Slockit the company I built after that would be a service provider for them getting paid by them for work being done for the DAO for one version I was always skeptical and still am about companies where you have effectively two cap tables Meaning you have a token cap table if you want course it's a utility token governance token and so on But effectively it's kind of ownership in the protocol And then you have a for profit company with shareholders And this is always I think very dangerous You don't know where to go into What's the best value On the shares of the company or on the token This was the main reason all those companies had those nonprofit foundations in Switzerland Rightfully so because they said you only want to have one cap table The Ethereum Foundation there was no shareholders of Ethereum Was a nonprofit foundation and a token The token if you want to have a share in the economic success of the protocol you would buy ether And so later on there were many other token projects where they had a nonprofit foundation so no shareholders no second cap table and then you would have only the token and all the value would be there And now with Uniswap you have this problem of having again shareholders and tokens And I think that's dangerous and not a good idea actually

**[39:46] SPEAKER_00:** Yep Yep So perhaps let's talk about dev Actually just before we get to devcon one So the launch Obviously a lot of of testing and coordination in this different series of concepts So I mean what how did you know it was good enough Like what was that testing flow and collaboration like

**[40:06] SPEAKER_01:** So there are many indicators One being the Olympic test that running smoothly for a while Other one we had a static client having an audit which worked And then they were saying okay Now if Christoph doesn't find any failing test for like three weeks or four weeks or something we are ready This was the case And so we said that now we can set launch date In And the launch itself it's also a bit typically Typically Gavin or or nobody wanted to push a button Like nobody just like start a chain So what was done was there was a script written which has as an input parameter the hash of the Olympic test net at a certain block height So everybody could using the script plus the software plus C++ or GoClient of course having plus the hash which was at that time in the future of the Olympic test net start that chain So there was no at the like at launch day we were just viewing it There was nothing to be done It was like everything was all the information was out there People were just simultaneously starting the blockchain And then over the peer to peer network this was actually the more more harder stuff They found themselves on Reddit and others to share IP addresses like connect to miss connect to my peer connect to my peer And so then they started to come together and of course the longest chain was the Reddit one So as soon as you found a peer which had their own chain you would think and say Russ yes this is a longer one you would stop and start mining on top of his chain So basically the canonical chain emerged from that within I don't know thirty minutes or one hour and then we had the chain running And this was like a beauty to behold Like let's just see how this works out as intended completely decentralized Nobody did that do anything We just I was in the C Plus Plus Building office in Kreuzberg 37 A Nice office and we just watched it And we are somewhere mining there with the laptop Wasn't really and we are all excited that it stopped I actually think think two or two or three weeks after or maybe four we had the first little hard fork Meaning there was some smart contract doing something that gas and C++ had a different result Because for me almost the middle of the light at 10PM or 11PM So I remember seeing this looking for one hour or so finding what's the e what's the issue then I found it gave it to Jeff They fixed it I think we said one hour In fact after five hours everything was done And they basically called up the miners Please update your client So and then it was fine So this was the early days but it was a successful launch nevertheless

**[42:17] SPEAKER_00:** Did the Haskell clients sync at Genesis

**[42:23] SPEAKER_03:** I do not know Did

**[42:25] SPEAKER_01:** Jim?

**[42:26] SPEAKER_03:** No We we were able to sync at Genesis time for like a year or so We were syncing But I remember like that week Karen and I were like more interested in trying to get a minor in place So that was the what that week looks like for us

**[42:45] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah I had I was living in an apartment just south of Berkeley campus at this time And we've been taking me to Fry's to build a machine a few months prior like a build machine It had a good GPU in it Yeah Fry's is dead now Uh-huh RIP I was running a miner there and we built a couple in Jim's garage I got very hot in Jim's garage which was you know those those things were consuming a fair bit of power Mine exploded after a few weeks It was actually just the power So I thought the whole machine was bricked Jim said you know I think everything but the power supply will be okay And it was the case that everything but the power supply was okay But then I stopped mining

**[43:26] SPEAKER_03:** And I think Jim would shut We didn't even bother to buy cases at that time Right Yeah I was just You may have had a case I I I had mine just sitting wires out

**[43:37] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah Yeah Indeed

**[43:38] SPEAKER_00:** Sure You have over twelve minutes

**[43:41] SPEAKER_02:** At that time we were always you know sort of at least at that time shorter handed people wise so it's catching up a little bit on the features etcetera but it it ran perfectly well

**[43:52] SPEAKER_01:** There was always new features coming I remember it was like we one of the sweet memories during the prelaunch sitting together with Gavin Jeffrey and me in one room at the C++ office like the nice Gavin office He had this eighties style thing And we think okay What was wrong in our protocol Then they discussed with the whiteboard changes Then they first say okay Chris If you write a test for this protocol change then we are in the meet at the same time You're coding it The okay You're done creating a test Let's see if they all pass it If they all pass it It's like done Your feature did directly you release And so this is not done with all the other clients So they basically had to catch up There was like information update of yellow paper Here's a new test Here's like a little ether pad description of what the new Yellow protocol looks like and then please update your clients

**[44:52] SPEAKER_03:** This not got me to a certain point Sorry The Yellow paper always got me to a certain point but it was always behind the other other clients So I would always find out that like I I was behind because I went in the morning and connected to the test net and I was no longer connecting or I was getting some state route mismatch or something And then I'd have to like go and dig through usually the C++ client I think there was maybe one or two times where I can't remember why I think there was one or two things that went to Geth first but usually it was C++ And I'd have to go digging through the newest code to find the the changes and then bring them in And then a few weeks later I'd see it in the yellow paper So Yep

**[45:36] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah So unlike what you have now we're leading into a hard fork You know you've got all that discussion and specking up front and yeah Buying the code into the clients but only enable for a test net going through that dance and then ready to go Yeah I mean at that point as you say it's kind of like done in those clients first and then

**[45:57] SPEAKER_03:** back later It looked like from where I was standing it looked like there was a lot of competition between the different clients and the developers there And and I think they sort of took pride in having the new thing in as fast as possible And so that sort of led to an environment maybe where there was not as much discussion It was like I'm gonna throw it in and then I get the bragging rights

**[46:18] SPEAKER_01:** There was there was always a hype in gas and C++ team about who's the best And like Kevin was having a big ego and Jeff was more like just give it a use back I just code it So but yeah it was more or less the this decision by the three of them I was basically not playing a very major role in the room and then writing a test word But they discussed it After it was clear they just did it But it was prelaunch After launch course this was different

**[46:52] SPEAKER_00:** So saying about having sorry Go on Jeff

**[46:57] SPEAKER_03:** Oh I was just gonna say like I I don't like a lot of the changes were just some change in the EVM or or pricing or something And so so often would like you know I would like freak out in the morning when I wasn't working But but then like by 11:00 or in the you know AM I had found oh I see Like the such and such opcode just doubled in price or something So I would just put that in But the big one was RLPX which is essentially like a big SSL replacement And that one was like freaking me up for a couple weeks I was like digging around trying to find any information about that Eventually I had to reverse engineer Maybe that was the one that was in Geth first I can't remember But I had to sit there and reverse engineer I had to like run either C++ or Geth and then like put lots of logging information in to see what in the world was happening and then print out all the stuff and then find like the appropriate you know crypto libraries to mimic that What was the background on that and how it went in so quickly And like there was nothing in the yellow paper about that at all And when that came in it was just a shock

**[48:07] SPEAKER_01:** Can you hear us again there Christophe Yes I can hear you I hope you can hear me through Okay

**[48:15] SPEAKER_00:** So the demo that you did at DEFCON one again another iconic event because yeah you have that physical smart lock just sitting there on your on your shelf and you know it rotates it Right You know Right You did you did your transaction.

**[48:32] SPEAKER_01:** It was We just had a Raspberry Pi connected via I think was SIP or set wave back then to the door lock And on the Raspberry Pi we had actually an Ethereum client running We had a smart contract on chain where you could send some money to it or ether actually and when it received some ether it would open up This was basically the demo But it was cool to see something physical You're talking about using Ethereum for as I said before the economy of things connected to IoT devices Since most of the people in the room are still nerds and devs they they love that kind of stuff And there was also the kettle wasn't it The Yes There was also a kettle Maybe just turned a smart plug like a power plug We could also turn on off same protocol same thing So we should we just want to show it's not just the door lock company because actually we are not producing those We're just connecting existing door locks to it We also showed this idea of the universal sharing network Everything which you can turn on off or lock up and unlock could be now connected to this network and everybody could like put almost everything in there like a washing machine You pay for using the washing machine or a bicycle lock even a padlock connected to it So you could have it your locker room and have a padlock in front of it and sell whatever's in there by having someone pay to open the padlock This was the generic idea We we got some VC money later after like in 2017 built it Nobody used it It was like not just too early It was like everything for everyone all at once and course nothing for no one It felt like the app was not great so we failed b two c wise at Slockit We then turned into more consulting projects to build Incube which was an IoT client made some money with that and about 50 people actually deployed employed at the time in 2019 when we sold the company to blockchains Jeffrey Burns Another another story.

**[50:34] SPEAKER_00:** So I remember speaking to Stefan at the time. So Stefan was involved with that demo Right It was Stefan who came up on stage to make his little cup of tea with the kettle there But I remember speaking to him that he'd been concerned about what the reception for him would be like you know having had this passing of ways with the foundation just two months before But he was saying it was all very friendly and people were, you know, very excited about the project.

**[51:02] SPEAKER_01:** Right

**[51:03] SPEAKER_00:** And saying actually about my IoT pieces. So in January 2015, you had a demo that happened at the consumer electronics show CES in Vegas which was a collaboration between IBM and Samsung. So the aforementioned Henning Dietrich part of that. And that again was months before mainnet, but you had a proto web three stack there, which was I think p o c five of Ethereum. You didn't have whisper. You had another thing called telehash, and you didn't have BitBitTorrent. So there was this proto web three stack there, and they had demos like a washing machine buying its own detergent and scheduling its own repair. So so yeah that was happening a little earlier. And yeah, so Slockit itself did a number of these different products Right There was something with electrical charging and something to do with toll roads Is that right Right We had a prototype running with RWE or energy in Germany They're doing like all the most of the charging stations So this was in channel in general, like we got a lot of attention, of course, also after the DAO hack and all of that. And so it's kind of why we became a consulting company because so many asked us could we do a prototype with you Because there were not many Ethereum builders at the time. So we have been building on Ethereum now since oh one year or two years which you could not find anybody doing this So we are building lots of nice prototypes and some almost production stuff and always related to IoT devices connected to the blockchain This was a core business, and on top of this, we built those prototypes We did a lot of growth for the ENS Web Foundation. I don't know if you're familiar with them. This was in Switzerland. They are kind of a fork of Ethereum focusing on all the energy use cases. We built most of their stuff in 2018 '19 until they hired their own developers Gethermind was also part of this a while So yes, this was still I mean if you remember this time there was so much enterprise interest Enterprise at the time we're just learning looking into this wants to build prototypes not yet production stuff So and there was a huge demand for eip for blockchain experts doing consulting, for going to conferences explain them what a blockchain is But at every tech conference you need some blockchain talk And this was kept based mostly us And they paid sometimes like 4000 for a talk As a company we needed the money Let's go there So of course you also have to think about us as persons Diamonds and me, we didn't get any money for almost a year Like we worked for we were not rich people We just come from ordinary families And we said well we can work for like three to four months without a salary Let's build the DAO and then we the DAO becomes big The DAO is paying sloppy to build it Of course after the hack, it was clear there will never ever be a payment So we made zero money out of the DAO So we needed to stop doing some work And this was in the beginning Let's do consulting for those large companies This is how Slockit became began to survive Many people said you cannot bury Slockit after what happened like your name is burned forever. And we decided to stay as a team, I mean, as a founder team Own our mistakes Maybe we are open and transparent about it as much as we could It was of course an honest mistake We can talk for it It could be another session just for the DAO I mean the DAO is a lot of topics I just put here very shortly Just talk about it from a company perspective And then Stefan, well he was saying Well he was trying to get VC money. And we were doing those consulting gigs. And once we had VC money, what happened as a company was We got 2000000 and of dollars, and then we built the product hired people for that got more and more consulting gigs So we always said well let's do them and just hire more people And yeah and we had like 50 people five or ten doing the product and 40 people doing consulting And then we got bought by Jeff Burns from blockchains Inc Remember maybe at DEFCON three, I think where it is a big port in Prague Right Yeah Want to build a city I think I love the vision You obviously had money. You want to build it on top of Ethereum Mainnet We were thinking about how maybe I can channel those billions into the right direction Building is all as intended on Ethereum Mainnet which was working fine for the beginning And then I found out once you're an entrepreneur, you never can be an employee again and so I had to leave So but it's maybe actually it's too far in the future I mean that's one thing I think I have to say here because you talked about DEFCON one and you skipped a little bit DEFCON two You said in DEFCON one Stefan Troil was very concerned how people perceive him, and they were very gentle, forgiving, and nice to him. So he was well received, and then he built the DAO community. I was super worried to go to DEFCON two because it was after the DAO hack. I was like seriously thinking someone might beat me up there Like I want to call another some people like I kind of almost destroyed Ethereum with the Spark and so much attention to it and all all the money lost for some people or like the time of growth is gone. Like it depends on how you view it So but when I went to DEFCON two, people were so nice for giving basically hacking me But I was giving the talk there, and the only thing I didn't like was the foundation telling me I was not allowed to speak about the DAO Which was like what? Like I am speaking here to the theme community Well how can I not speak about the DAO And so I talked about a pretty boring talk about security, and I think every second talk was about security at devcon two It was just about how we get those small context secure I kept a rather boring talk But in the end, I just said well thank you for your understanding and it was a rough hard time and so on And they were like somewhat standing ovations I remember becoming emotional because this was I did not expect this. I really expected like guy you messed up Ethereum Like you almost lost it all So I think this just speaks to the Ethereum community How they treated Stefan? How they treated me? Even though mistakes were made Honest mistakes, at least from what I can tell It's so This is such a great community of really nice people who really want to change the world Capable and also now financially capable of really doing things.

**[1:02:38] SPEAKER_01:** And it was quite cut off a little bit at the end. The It was quite end is Yeah You know, it was quite a long ovation there.

**[1:02:49] SPEAKER_00:** And yeah you could certainly see that emotion in you And that's when we first met actually. It was in Shanghai for DEFCON two, I remember. It was on the sidelines there in that main conference hall. And yeah it it it was lovely to see that That's for sure.

**[1:03:06] SPEAKER_02:** Yep I think good notes just Bobby were the one who tried to impose a hour to half an hour to hour rule or a solid one twenty right here

**[1:03:17] SPEAKER_00:** Sounds good. Maybe you would Me the other time. Maybe we've meet you know, we've reached a good kind of endpoint, I guess. So what happened after blockchains LLC for you then?

**[1:03:29] SPEAKER_01:** So because of time, I keep it short. So yes, we got bought by Jeffrey Burns, blockchains LLC at the time Again, the reason for this would be he want to build a new city in the desert He wanna do all IoT, all in Ethereum from scratch as a developer dream building from scratch on the greenfield on top of Ethereum with our tech And I felt comfortable at the beginning. In the end, I felt like we need to release stuff, and there were some voices at the company which didn't want to release until, like, a very, very big product was done For many reasons, that didn't happen. I don't want to get into, like, that too much So after two years, I left blockchains Back then, it was called Inc They made a change in their name And I did for six months, I did really nothing. I forced myself to do nothing, which was great after so so much stressful years And then I started a venture studio called CoPOS Ventures where we tried out many different ideas We had e m three, which was a decentralized messaging protocol gas hog We can save transaction cost on Ethereum What else did we have? So we have domain name stuff but we didn't release it at the end But the biggest one was tokenize it And this was being we built something for German for now, German startups In the end, we want to do it all over Europe. We're just tokenizing their shares and do fundraising So the in summary, it's like a web three based angel list for Europe It's the one sentence description for Americans also to understand Angel list that's a great tool for business angel investing We want to do the same for Europe, for all countries there, and build it on chains So tokenizing all those shares and enable private as well as public fundraising So some called legal ICOs if you want but also for private fundraising Our customers currently, if more than maybe a good way to end this, there's now more than 400 investments for more than 320 business angels at more than 50 companies Those are traditional German GMBHs raising from super current conservative business angels doing it completely on chain They're paying in stablecoins, getting their tokenized shares in their non custodial wallet They're all getting a notice safe wallet from us using preview for login So we build it as intended and we get normal people to use it For me, this is kind of a dream come true because I'm out of like I love the web three bubble I love this community I love to work inside there But for me, tokenize is a way to make this technology available where it belongs, like to startups and investors outside of our three bubble And I'm super, super happy that I could keep up those values that they have complete platform is non custodial They have their safe on Ethereum holding their tokens paying stablecoins So I'm very happy to see this We over the next years, we want to basically roll out this all over Europe and become yes the web three based angel list for Europe That's the goal.

**[1:06:29] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. So hope to see you at DevCon eight.

**[1:06:34] SPEAKER_01:** Me too I'm looking forward to it And I'm as of now, I don't intend any change Stick to Ethereum I love the community I continue building and try to get a lot of people using it

**[1:06:45] SPEAKER_00:** Have you been to have you been to every DevCon?

**[1:06:48] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. Yes. I said yes I've been to every DevCon The last one was actually the first one that I didn't give a talk, and I also went to every ECC except of one that was COVID There was some reason I couldn't come But yes I'm actually I intend to continue to come through every dev con It's like you meet the people like course many others It's just a sweet spirit there nice community Love seeing how it all grows Listen to those exciting talks I mean it's for tokenizers it's not as relevant It's not like our customers or it's tech of course We're just doing an ERC 20 token on Ethereum Super easy So deep tech Some sometimes I miss doing deep tech But well I just enjoy being there seeing what it all happened Remember those magic days, and just like only once in a lifetime or two times in a lifetime you have this moment where everything comes together at the right time the right place the right people This certainly where those one and a half years I worked for Ethereum are definitely like the prime of my career in terms of who I worked with what we accomplished the impact we had on the world and the sweet cyber cyberpunk spirit there and what we did there It was really great I always sometimes get emotional thinking about this and meeting those people again at DEFCON

**[1:08:32] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. Well, thank you for all your contributions to that success Likewise All the best Okay Oh just one more Where can we find you?

**[1:08:41] SPEAKER_01:** You can find me usually on Twitter for the Ethereum people ch r Of course I have a complicated name not many vocals in there but you find it Or of course on LinkedIn Actually for my company I'm more active on LinkedIn which I was never before That's what's where we get our clients as tokenize it Yeah But, usually, you can find me on Twitter follow me there on LinkedIn Excellent Okay Thanks so much Have a great day Thank you too It was great talking to you Bye bye Bye