**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** Can you hear me?

**[00:02] SPEAKER_03:** Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Excellent. Happy straddle spaces. GM. What's up, guys? I'm good. First week of September. I know at Strato we have a very exciting month ahead.

**[00:18] SPEAKER_03:** I think technically fall starts on the 21st or 22nd, but spiritually it starts after Labor Day, of course. I don't know if anyone has a white suit, but I actually sort of have a white suit. And you can no longer wear those already.

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** I might have to see that. White suit's pretty nice.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_03:** I may have a photo. I think it's been worn to two sort of summer weddings, and that's the only time it's been. But I could probably dig one up for you, Jamie.

**[00:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Text, you're welcome. We had him, we lost him. Give it a few more minutes for some more folks to pile in. Yeah, yeah, Spiritually Fall is here along with football to the behest of our European counterparts.

**[00:59] SPEAKER_03:** By the way, for Spaces Resiliency, Chad GPT is recommending two co-hosts up front. Now, do we already have the two, or can you add another one?

**[01:08] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you and Bob are co-hosts.

**[01:12] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, it just appears a speaker to me. Maybe it appears as co-host to Bob on Bob's side. Bob, are you a co-host successfully?

**[01:19] SPEAKER_00:** It appears so.

**[01:21] SPEAKER_03:** I see it now. Okay, fantastic.

**[01:24] SPEAKER_02:** Can you hear me? All right, cool.

**[01:27] SPEAKER_03:** Wait, very, very kind of cool August for those of us who spent some of it in New York. August is supposed to be hot, and it mostly wasn't. There's supposed to be a sharp transition heading into the fall, but it feels like it kind of started early this year. I don't know what's going on.

**[01:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, completely agree. A lot of long sleeves and sweatshirts during the night. cooler you guys are old been around talking about the weather we're waiting for you well i'm here even better welcome what's up gm yeah great great to kick this off um I'll hand the mic over to Bob, but I just want to pay my compliments to your PFT texture. It's quite a good one. Thanks, man.

**[02:03] SPEAKER_02:** Do you own a texture pump?

**[02:05] SPEAKER_01:** I do not, but I saw a few folks with them and obviously noticed yours, so might have to get one.

**[02:08] SPEAKER_02:** it was a joke cause I thought punks were ugly. So I made myself a better one. And then a friend asked me to make her one and then somebody else asked me to make one. And then like 30 people later, I was like, I should just fucking make a little thing where they can make their own. And then, um, uh, then, then my buddy started a discord and 10,000 people showed up and I was like, look,

**[02:35] SPEAKER_01:** That's some good lore.

**[02:37] SPEAKER_02:** That's some great lore right there. I thought it was going to be me and my hundred friends.

**[02:42] SPEAKER_00:** Accidental success. Fantastic.

**[02:45] SPEAKER_02:** Great.

**[02:46] SPEAKER_00:** All right. Well, let's get going. So hi, Texture. How are you?

**[02:51] SPEAKER_02:** It's been a while. It's been a long time.

**[02:53] SPEAKER_00:** always good when I think of you the first thing I think of is love oh and something I've spotted going through making my notes is your medium is called peace love Revolution yes so what's the story there

**[03:06] SPEAKER_02:** so you know uh i was kind of i wouldn't say a hippie i didn't dress like a hippie i didn't really hang out with hippies but i i took some psychedelics and when i was a kid and i had some experiences and uh you know kind of drove my passion for uh you know doing good things and spreading love in the world i know people that probably follow me are like what the he just calls people retards all day uh yeah but i mean i'm on twitter i don't know it's full of retards um so i started this group called peace love human because uh i was like sitting in a shitty basement apartment in san francisco and uh i was watching the news and i was seeing how religions got all fucked up and I was like what if there was like a religion that didn't have any beliefs and we just went out and did nice shit so for like three years of my life I was just like homeless and had no job and wanted to setting up like free hug events and like other stuff just to make people smile because like you know making people feel loved or making people happy was not like a quantifiable metric but making people smile was so that was that was what I did for my early 20s. So that's what I was doing, the community building. I accidentally started a cult. And when I realized that it was a cult, I shut it down.

**[04:13] SPEAKER_00:** Okay.

**[04:15] SPEAKER_02:** But it helped me. It was my first foray into cult building, which obviously...

**[04:19] SPEAKER_00:** Right. Very useful.

**[04:21] SPEAKER_02:** I took into my role in Ethereum, and I feel like the Ethereum cult is going pretty well.

**[04:26] SPEAKER_00:** I seem to remember at some point you told me that you've probably hugged a thousand random people on the street.

**[04:31] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, a thousand in a day, probably, probably a hundred thousand more, more. Yeah. It was nice. It was, it was good. I mean, I could waste this entire thing telling that story. That's probably not what people want to hear.

**[04:39] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, I can see why Decentralized Dance Party also appealed to you on that score.

**[04:42] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, so DDP, Gary, the guy who runs that, he came and stayed at my apartment in Brooklyn, and we had this three-story loft in a warehouse, and we'd let people come crash, and he came through, and that's how I met him, and I've done three or four of them. I was... What is it? It's Tom. So Tom is like a rotate. I was Tom one time. So that was fun. I had to shave my beard. I had a mustache. I looked funny.

**[05:01] SPEAKER_00:** I'll drop some links on Twitter for that for anyone who hasn't seen Decentralized Dance Party or you can go and have a Google on your own. It's quite exceptional.

**[05:08] SPEAKER_02:** It's funny. I had no...

**[05:10] SPEAKER_00:** didn't really understand the decentralized thing at that point i was not really involved so that he was kind of ahead of the curve on that with me for sure so yeah that's gary la chance who was a fellow vancouverite with me um he was uh funnily enough in in in a photo for the very first item i could find about vancouver decentral know the whole uh decentral toronto vancouver thing gary was in that photo for the first one maybe well known as well now but for doge claren so there is the doge wrapped mclaren which uh travels around many uh many conferences where they can get uh financial support for that um yeah gary's a great guy it's pretty fun So tell me about the vision that you had, which was then the same as the white paper, because on the Twitter thread, I was wrongly saying your mind was blown by the Ethereum white paper, where actually what happened was that you'd had a vision of this about a week before, And then the white paper landed on your lap. So what the hell was that about?

**[06:13] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, so what actually happened was I had a roommate for years ago, like years when I lived in New York. And he had tried to get me into Bitcoin when it was a dollar. And I said, this is like internet nerd money. I'm like a love revolutionary. I don't give a shit about this. And then he kept bothering me about it for years. And then it hit $1,400. And I was kind of humble enough to be like, well, if other people think it's worth something, I guess it is. But he had texted me and he said, listen, man, I want you to listen to this podcast. And it was the Let's Talk Bitcoin podcast with Adam B. Levine and Andreas Antonopoulos. And so I had given up working in tech because my arms had given out. I was a programmer and designer for a very long time. And Uh, I had, I started making cannabis edibles in California because it, uh, it seemed like a, uh, an industry that was going to be, um, some pretty easy to get into like the marketing, the production, everything was shit and I was pretty good at it. So, uh, yeah, so I had, I had a girlfriend who was about four hours away, uh, and I would go visit her on the weekends and I, so I threw the Bitcoin podcast on, I ate one of my candies and, uh, Don't drive stone kids. But yeah, on the way there, I was listening and listening to the podcast and my, my brain is kind of tuned in and I had, I like, what could I, I can only describe as like a biblical vision. I would say like before that, I wouldn't have understood what that meant, but like, just this massive data download into my head where I can see, like basically see the future, like visually, like I just saw the whole thing playing out in front of me. And I was like, Oh shit, you know, Bitcoin, I'm still not particularly fascinated by, but the blockchain, um, This idea has an amazing amount of potential. And I kind of saw how it could help people coordinate. And so it just kind of it struck me so much that I was like, I got to go talk to Adam. I got to go meet the people who did this podcast because at that time it was the only Bitcoin podcast. And I thought anybody who wanted attention for what they were doing would probably contact them. So the buddy that had told me to listen to the podcast randomly came into town three days later. And I said, hey, man, I've been thinking a lot. I listen to the podcast. I have a lot of ideas. I need to meet Adam. I need to meet. And he goes, well, actually, I'm flying out in a couple of days to go meet him. We have a meeting scheduled. He's in Washington celebrating his birthday with his wife. And I said, no, no, no, no. We're getting in my car right now. I'm driving. I'm driving us there. I'm going, I'm going to go talk to him. And he's like, what really? And I'm like, yeah, fucking cancel your ticket. Like we're getting my car right now. So we drove like 20 hours or whatever to like Washington state. I walked in pretty much. I don't know what their meeting was about, but I pretty much just took Adam to the side and we ended up sitting in his hot tub on his balcony for like, Nine hours just talking. And it was a really cool discussion. And I said, what I want from you is I want you to tell me anybody you know who's working on anything like this. And he said, well, do you know who Vitalik is? I said, man, I'm not in crypto. I'm not in Bitcoin. I don't know. I don't know anybody. I don't know anything. Um, and he said, uh, well, he just sent me this white paper a few days ago. I can like, I can forward it to you. Um, and can you guys still hear me?

**[09:23] SPEAKER_00:** Yep.

**[09:25] SPEAKER_02:** Yep. So then, um, Yeah. So he forwarded me the white paper. I looked at it. You know, to me, it wasn't as comprehensive as the vision that I had, but I thought, you know, this is kids met, you know, right. Like what are the chances that all of this stuff lined up like this? So I said, yeah, make the intro. And so we started a Skype group and, you know, Adam was there. I remember Charles was there. Vitalik was there. I was there. It became the official Ethereum Skype group and just kind of grew from there. So, you know, it was like... Was that water cooler? No, no, no. Water cooler is something I made later because people... That was later. yeah so that was just the the the literal like main ethereum skype channel that we used to communicate for the first i don't know long time right no water cooler was something i created later because I actually don't remember why. I guess I was kind of like...

**[10:28] SPEAKER_00:** I guess it's off-topic or whatever, probably. Off-topic chatty thing.

**[10:31] SPEAKER_02:** Maybe, but I was kind of like the dude that everybody trusted. And so whenever anybody wanted to talk to somebody, they would come talk to me, which is why I got so much information about what was going on all the time. But yeah, so I think it was just an extension of that. People talk to me all the time when we create a little place for us to shoot the shit.

**[10:49] SPEAKER_00:** So when do you think you had that trip to Washington? When do you think that would have been?

**[10:53] SPEAKER_02:** I'm horrible with time and dates, especially during that time, you know, when you're like a free-flowing hippie dude. Yeah. But I would say it was the week after... the week and a half after Vitalik sent the white paper out to his original group of people to get the feedback on.

**[11:09] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, so it might even have been during November still.

**[11:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean, it was as early as you could get. I mean, just by happenstance, just by the timing I was there, basically the moment we were coming together.

**[11:19] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah, it's amazing. Cause yeah, so I was able to find that, uh, the video of, of you and Vitalik at the, uh, at the salon, uh, which was, uh, beaming into the Vancouver Decentral there. And that was December the 15th. That was. Yeah. You did that one.

**[11:34] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. So we had been, yeah, I mean, again, the timing, the timing, I don't know, but yeah, obviously by that time we had been doing it for a minute.

**[11:40] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, the funny thing was looking at that, that's before there was any code, any public code at least. There wasn't even any Python code from Vitalik published at that point. Gav and Jeff were weeks away still.

**[11:52] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And Jeff, to my understanding, just read the white paper and started coding it up on his own and said, hey, I've got this Go implementation.

**[11:59] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, pretty much. And the same for Gav. They were both at the very tail end of December, basically like a Christmas project kind of deal for them, for the pair of them.

**[12:08] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, no, it was great. You know, and I've been a developer my whole life since I was a kid. Um, and since I had quit coding, I wasn't really sure where I fit in, you know, but I was really happy when all these other people like got in, I guess maybe if I had dropped some code and gotten a lot more ETH, that would have been cool, but whatever.

**[12:24] SPEAKER_00:** So, I mean, to you at that point, like, what was Ethereum? Like, what was this vision? And what were you thinking that that could unfold to be? You know, what was the kernel of that?

**[12:35] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, so, I mean, it's so hard to remember those days. There's so much on top of it now. You know, I remember the general vibe was just, a technology that would allow people to coordinate, to, to encode value to, I mean, you know, like just at all dimensions, things that haven't even come to fruition yet, things that people aren't even thinking about because like, so much of it has gone to scale, just like fundraising, fundraising locally, like just coordinating anything. I mean, it was, it was just the whole world, like just imagining every single system being replaced by this decentralized coordination structure that, that gives the, the, you know, some, some 11 year old kid and, you know, Bangalore could create the next, you know, technical development. And, you know, I think that kind of platform is just something that seemed really empowering. So, you know, a lot of idealism, you know, obviously real life as it's played out is a lot messier and a lot different from how we imagined it. But a lot of idealistic things, a lot of like very much Uh, just, just really coordination. And that's a really shitty description of the vision that I had because it was so deep and so multidimensional and, um, but yeah.

**[13:29] SPEAKER_00:** Social operating system is something I've seen you say on a few occasions.

**[13:34] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean, yeah, just there's so many dimensions to it. But yeah, I mean, a social operating system for allowing people to encode their values or encode, yeah, literally their values, anything with value, creating incentive structures, contracts that are enforced at the exact level that they were designed to. which none of that sounds really technical and unsexy, but to me it was really about the impact. What happens when you empower people to be able to create value in their local communities or encode value in ways they haven't been able to? What happens when you know, the equity in your company can be easily traded, you know, just all these things. Just so what happens when you can do that to houses and local businesses and local communities?

**[14:09] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, I'm thinking my own sort of thinking in those early days, it was an awful lot about empowerment and about, you know, giving, giving people the ability to control their own destiny. Right. Yeah. Um, and, and something I repeatedly thought was, was like, um, if you think about the, uh, what's it called? The pyramid of needs. What's it called? I forget the.

**[14:26] SPEAKER_03:** Maslow. The hierarchy.

**[14:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Maslow's right. Maslow hierarchy of needs. know i remember a number of times saying you know it's frankly obscene given all the resources that we have in the world and how you know how much more there is than was in previous years it's obscene that people should be like worried about housing or education or health care or you know just these basic things right yeah and how wonderful would it be if you could like yank up that base layer a little bit so that people are not like living in this fearful place of powerlessness but instead can be like not worrying about that and not having to make these compromised bad decisions and everything yeah just if you could do what you love what what a world that would be yeah and i'm a lot less idealistic about it now after

**[15:08] SPEAKER_02:** the last decade for a lot of reasons, but you know, the marshmallow test is real and you can create really good technologies and really good user experiences and as many guardrails as you can for people. But at the end of the day, there's motherfuckers that are going to eat the marshmallow before they even hear the rules, you know, and then they'll do it again and again. So, you know, I think there's a lot of, it's not that I think the problems are unsolvable, but they're, you know, the idea that, it's something from above being imposed down. You know, despite the fact that the system seemed to be that way, I think a lot of it is just the, the, the level of complexity of modern life relative to the average intelligence is it's just, it's, it's a wide gap and there's a lot of, I mean, I could talk about that for fucking 10 hours too. So yeah,

**[15:49] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, well, I mean, something that I saw in those early days of Ethereum as well was a real kind of almost like allergic reaction to anything that looked like organization or hierarchy or structure. You know, just like this total flip to the opposite side, right? Everything's got to be flat and open and, you know, everything, everyone involved with everything, which is just completely impractical for actually organizing or doing anything. Um, yeah. Yeah. It's just, it's just nutty. So, but then it's like, I realized it's like hierarchy. Isn't the problem being tracked in a hierarchy where it's to your detriment and you can't get out is the problem. Yeah.

**[16:20] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And a lot of, and I think a lot of times what happens in that is smart people, you know? smart people aren't really, they don't really understand not smart people. And so what happens is we, we are born into a world where these preexisting hierarchies exist and they've, you know, to some degree or another, you know, kind of persisted through, through generation after generation. And then we come in and we're like, why am I at the bottom of this hierarchy? I'm smart. We're all too smart for this. And then they try to like, know they try to create new systems assuming that everyone is approximately like them and then you know i've i've been through so many because again coming through the hippie i was in the bay area for a long time you see so many people think that they're the first person ever think of flat hierarchies and how it's going to be so much better and at the end of the day man like that's fine if you want to talk all the time and you want to argue and you want to get nothing done but at the end of the day you know a hierarchy is an information structure and it's also an accountability structure and so as long as there's accountability at the top and as long as the information is flowing correctly and as long as the outputs are you know optimal to some degree then it's the best you're going to get and it's it doesn't mean we can't continually improve obviously life gets better and we we have an obligation you know i think when you're creating things, it's not just the creating things. And I think this is a big problem that still exists in crypto. People think if you build it, they will come. You can't just build it. You have to build it and then you have to make it a button, a single button. It has to be so simple your grandma can do it and not destroy her life. And so it is this kind of perpetual attempt to take these complex structures, simplify them so that everyone has access to them. But through that simplification, not creating these kind of hells that no one can get out of. And I think... Just because of the rate of technological development and the nature of economic progress, our opportunities as people trapped in those systems is to build new systems. But ultimately, we're going to come face to face with the reality of why those systems were set up the way they were and understand that. the best we can really hope for in most instances is an optimization of that. We can try to make it simpler, more efficient, better and more adaptable. But those are a lot of dimensions that any one of them out of how to out of sync is going to is going to create either more problems or the system itself will collapse. Right. And, you know, if the system doesn't exist and nobody gets nobody gets anything.

**[18:04] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, I guess it's a little bit analogous to sort of technical death and things in code. Yep. If you've got code and you're like, Jesus, look at this. It's so much like complexity and these conditions. I don't think we need any of that. Let's just take all that out. But, you know, someone did that for a reason.

**[18:16] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[18:17] SPEAKER_00:** You may not know the reason, but, you know, it was done for a reason. And, you know, you're going to have some consequence if you do that, right? Yeah. You can only be so simple without being too simplistic, and then you miss out on that detail. Yeah. I mean, I guess it's like, you know, with sort of US legal stuff, you know, this hot liquid might burn you or whatever. You just know that some shit's happened in the past, right? The reason that all of these things have happened is someone's done something really fucking stupid.

**[18:40] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and I, you know, after I became a father, I became really a huge proponent of the idea of if you think a stupid rule exists because the person who made it is stupid, you haven't thought through the problem. It isn't a bunch of people. I'm not saying this has never existed, but it's not like some nefarious guy at the top who wants to just ruin your life. It's some fucking idiot who did some idiot shit. And then now you got to make a stupid rule. You know what I mean? And you got to enforce it with fire. Otherwise, you know, your kids end up dumping plates of food in their closet and you find it six months later. And so, you know, it's, it's just that at scale.

**[19:07] SPEAKER_00:** You're gonna have to keep me on topic as much as you want to because i am a meanderer yeah um on on this human side something i i talked about um during my uh maple syrup peace phase was was neurodiversity and the fact that uh normies would not be involved in the early phases of such a project right it's absolutely crazy to go and do what you did yeah it's crazy what most people did um so how does that play out the fact that in these frontier Technologies you don't have normal people well you do but you have a lot of uh of us people who would not fall into that category. So how does that all play out? What do you think is happening there?

**[19:40] SPEAKER_02:** I think it's just the structure of how things have always occurred, right? So you have these kind of people on the front edge. And I was on the internet from... know i remember reading when the html 2.0 spec was about to come out right and so the early days of the internet it was that and so i was on the internet all day talking to people and you know there was a technical barrier and and it's just you have these kind of neurodivergent people show up so in the early days of crypto it was a lot of people who are paranoid, a lot of autistic people and a spattering of sociopaths who kind of could see that they could make money. And so that has a profound effect on how things play out. But I think it seems the way that at least in capitalism, what happens is huge amounts of capital come in and it just becomes this kind of probability matrix of, Throw as much energy at this thing as you can on the front end, and then whatever survives is going to play out. But if you look at something like Linux or open source technology in general, it's very autistic. And autistic people have a very specific, I've noticed, differentiation from the average person, which is they, they honestly like believe that the terminal is the greatest interface of all time. It's like, they don't grasp that most people need buttons. And so it's like, you look at Linux, Linux was kind of a fringe thing only tech people used. And then Google came in and, at least had enough sense to hire some designers to turn it into something functional. Steve Jobs did the same thing with OSX. OSX was a previous Unix variant. And so you need those people. You need those people who come in who are on the edge, who are technical enough to be able to communicate with the technical people and understand. But they also need the clout, the money, and the power to overrule those people because... like linux had like very horrible user interface and user experience for a long time even when they had window managers and you have to understand i was a designer so i would go into these open source spaces and i i'm going to tell you what man like These people who for sure would not let you comment on their code and for sure not let you tell you how they were going to structure it or for sure not tell them what language they were going to use have no fucking problem stepping outside of their own expertise and driving a designer insane. know what i mean very logical unemotional totally tapped out of any sense of like what a normal person needs and they they just beat the designers into the ground so you really need somebody who has power and the competence and the will and the desire and can put it all together um and and i i don't think we really see that you know what i mean the wallets suck you you know um you could i i don't know now but you know Like a year ago, I clicked a button and emptied my hot wallet, right? And like, that shouldn't be possible. Like how hard is it to throw up a fucking thing that says, hey, are you meaning to send every bit of this? This is a lot of money. You know, like why does it not just say, Hey, it didn't even say it in dollars. Do you know what I mean? It was, it was obfuscated. It didn't even say there should have been a massive fucking pop-up that said, you're about to send a hundred thousand dollars to somebody. Um, are you sure you want to do this? Yeah. Or, or, or I, as soon as I clicked the button, knew what had happened, even if there had been like a fucking five minute, you know, delay, um, Right. You think there's there's but none of this isn't happening. Right. And be the structure of the organizations or, you know, if the designers are having to argue with the tech people, like whatever it is, it's just grandma still can't use this shit. It's ten years in. If I find energy, I could, you know what I mean? I could like within six months we could we could solve these problems. And I just don't see.

**[23:07] SPEAKER_00:** And I guess. i i guess this is the reason why things like the etfs are so appealing right is just yeah can i just not deal with any of this at all uh but i can just like use my courage account i've already got and it's just a thing that i buy or sell right and and just you know it's a proxy for it but most people don't care yeah but that reduces it to an investment vehicle right it does it does It does, and then that's really a failure, as you say, on delivery of the holistic platform that you do need something which is absolutely better, right? It's just like a product question, really, right? It's saying, unless the product that you are offering is absolutely better than something existing... or is cheaper or gives you some other benefits or whatever, then normal people are not going to use it. You've given them something that's worse than what they have, so they don't care.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and so I think exchanges and things like that acting as a buffer, it's a step. Ultimately, how are these things going to be used? The end user is probably not going to know.

**[24:01] SPEAKER_00: what they're using on the back end any more than the average person knows what processor is in their phone so no no I mean I I guess the hope is it's like a layering thing right that you know in the same ways you've got those DeFi primitives that you're going to layer this you know whatever social recovery or buffered amounts or whatever or insurance for up or all this sort of stuff right that you should be able to put together a stack of things that have an equivalent kind of characteristic and experience to existing things, but without that strong dependence on, you know, a single legal entity that's, you've got that customer service provider kind of pattern rather than just it being raw, dangerous as you experienced.

**[24:37] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And I mean, you know, to this day, I mean, I feel anxious all the time because I hold crypto, you know? Me, I feel anxious all the time. You know what I mean? I think we all do. So it's like that's not an experience that the average person wants. The average person wants to put their money in a bank account. The average person wants to click a button and if something goes wrong, to be able to reverse it. You know, we haven't really addressed any of that. Again, it's a failure because the people who are in charge think like, anyone can do what they're doing and it's not that big of a deal. And like, all you have to do is do this and like, blah, blah, blah. It's like another, if all they have to do is click a button, you've done it. That's, that's your metric for success. Click one button and not worry about anything. You just know the thing's going to happen. And if it doesn't, it'll get fixed.

**[25:18] SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, when I was looking through, um, sort of different phases of this period that i've been covering in the um in the early days of ethereum uh sort of website there i uh i was noticing so in in january in january and february 2014 there's just such a flood of people that came in i mean there were a fair chunk in december uh but that just really accelerated uh through january and february So, I mean, how did that, like, play out that you've just got, like, tons and tons of people, you know, rocking up and really, like, volunteering?

**[25:47] SPEAKER_02:** It turned everything into Game of Thrones. Yeah. Yeah, that's what happened. It turned everything into Game of Thrones. So, like, I was there day one. I was making sure, like, you know, first thing I did – um vitalik posted this website that he made it was piss yellow he had stolen some other shit coins logo and um just put ethereum on it and i was like please don't post this give me till tomorrow so i like spun up a logo sent it to him he was like oh yeah this is kind of what i was thinking i was like thank god please don't put that out um I don't know if I made a website or, and then somebody submitted an image, but the image was like, like, and so just real quick, like what I used to do is I used to be like the dude who, um, dev shops would call when they were six months behind on a project and needed it done in three days. Right. So I was a designer full stack developer. So my, my skill was I could take your idea and I could, I could make it look like it existed forever. And you had $10 million in funding in 24 hours. right so that was my goal at that point once i realized that that was a massive gap i just inserted myself there and i'm only telling the story to say then when everybody flooded in and especially when the zugg house happened you had all these people kind of going behind other people's backs and um trying to um push people out and take over their roles and it was it was just a very stressful weird time because You just get a different type of person, right? The type of people who show up and are just wanting to build a thing because it's cool. That's the type of person. But when they show up and they're like, yeah, let's fucking let's make sure it's us. Let's make sure we're the ones. Let's like, fuck those people. Let's not communicate with them. So there was a lot of like political maneuvering that was required to survive.

**[27:09] SPEAKER_00: Yeah, and I mean, I guess that Miami house was where that really dug in. Because that was the first time that most people were physically in the same location out of that set of people.

**[27:16] SPEAKER_02:** It was pretty fun. The weirdest part about that was meeting Charles. And, you know, Charles, he might have been the first person who was doing kind of the thing that I just said, right? Yeah. He just showed up and kind of inserted himself and was like, I'm going to be CEO. He's just a fucking liar, though, man. He was like 24 or something. 25. Yeah, he presented himself like he was 50 years old and he'd been in tech forever. And here's the thing, man. I actually was probably the most experienced in terms of I'd lived in Silicon Valley. I'd worked in multiple startups. But... Like despite my personality on Twitter or even if you meet me in person, like I'm pretty humble when I get into a group of people that I can tell have skills. So I kind of just sat back and didn't try to insert myself. I didn't try to like demand anything. you know i'd be involved in this or that i just tried to be as helpful as i could um so you know when i when i talked to uh uh charles for the first time i was like all right you know this dude's kind of weird like but well we'll see what's up so like literally the moment i met him in miami i shook his hand and i was like oh god he's a sociopath like okay well maybe he's our sociopath you know like every company has a sociopath like maybe he's like a well-regulated sociopath and then when we got to the miami house i found out no no he's not a well-regulated sociopath he's a fucking compulsive liar manipulative weirdo kieran were you gonna say something

**[28:15] SPEAKER_03:** I was just going to say, in Charles' defense, at that time, he did look 50 years old. He'd go away with it.

**[28:19] SPEAKER_02:** Bro, when I found out he was like fucking seven years younger than me, I was like, why am I deferring to this kid? He's like, what the hell? Um, so yeah, it was, it was weird, man. Uh, like in the Miami house, I, he just said some of the weirdest shit to me. Um, there was some thing from, I don't know. I won't go into too many details. I've, I've covered them and given interviews to people who have reported on it, but not under my name. So I guess to shield me from any sort of retribution, but I, I, it was weird, man. He just said some weird shit to me. Like he showed me, I'll tell this one cause I've told it publicly a lot of times, but he was like, texture, come here. And I'm like, what's up? And he's like, check out this text message. And I'm like, okay. And I like just met the dude and he shows me this text message and it's the chick. And she's like, I want to suck your cock so bad. Sorry for any children listening. Um, and, uh, I'm like, why the fuck is he showing me this? And he's like, you know where I met her? I was like, no. He's like, I met her on the front lines of Afghanistan when I was working for DARPA. I'm like, Jesus Christ, dude. Oh my God, shut the fuck up. And so I will say this because it's something that bothers me. Like for some reason, the media all says that the reason that Charles was kicked out was because he wanted to do business and not a nonprofit. And like Charles got kicked out because he was a fucking weirdo sociopath who didn't do anything. like on above board and like, he couldn't be trusted. He, he didn't, he played games with everybody. Like I was not in his inner circle. Cause I, I did like, he would do, I call him sociopath. That's where like, they say something fucked up to see how you respond. They'll ask you to do unreasonable things to see if you'll do them. And then the people that do them and do them without question end up being in his inner circle. They, they become the people, which is continued on in his Cardano. So like, You know, he he he just operates in such a way that he gets sycophants around him. He lies to them. He gets them into situations where they like loyal to him and they don't question him. And then, you know, just weaves a whole reality around that that isn't real. And that's that that's my assessment of Charles. And he was he was not kicked out because of business. I mean, it was a cluster. Now. Yeah. I mean, no one else was kicked out. Let's just say that. I guess Amir left, but that's another story.

**[30:12] SPEAKER_00: Well, Amir was kind of kicked out from what I saw based on the fact that people thought he wasn't actually doing anything. He wasn't really, like, pulling his weight or doing anything useful.

**[30:21] SPEAKER_02:** I liked Amir as a person. I haven't talked to him in a few years. We're still cool to this day. But, yeah, I mean, what was his skill set?

**[30:27] SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I don't know. Biz Debbie sort of stuff. He said he was... He was talking to people, potential investors sort of thing. But yeah. Yeah. And I mean, in terms of Charles, it took me a lot of years to really understand Charles, shall we say.

**[30:41] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. You know, I defended you on that because I think you're like a really sweet guy and I think I understand your perspective. So whether or not I like Charles, I'm going to come defend you.

**[30:48] SPEAKER_03: Not to dig too much, but Charles is kind of like buddy, assistant, partner guy. Is his name Jeremy? I'm trying, I'm remembering, because I actually thought he was Jeremy Wood. Yeah, and maybe there was more there, but I'm just, to Texture's point, you know, maybe he was just naive, or maybe you guys know more than I do, but that was sort of a strange dichotomy.

**[31:06] SPEAKER_02: Yeah, again, I think it's just whoever would follow him around and not question him. That's how you got to be his right-hand man. The less questions you ask, the closer, better friend you are. The more you listen to his stupid stories, didn't call him on it. You know what I mean? I was on the front lines of Afghanistan for DARPA, and now I'm like, shut the fuck up, Charles.

**[31:26] SPEAKER_00: With Jeremy Wood, he notably called him, boy, come here, boy.

**[31:30] SPEAKER_02: I never saw that wow I'm telling you like I remember some story about him like playing games with people in the Zug house like sending somebody's sending somebody off whose wife was there, a girlfriend, and telling them that they had to go do this thing for him out of town. And then when that person had left, he then tried to convince one of the other dudes to get with the dude's wife. Just weird stuff, man. Why would you do that? You have an opportunity of life. The answer is you're a fucking idiot who lied yourself into a situation you shouldn't be in and you are a compulsive... lying manipulator i'm sure it makes him feel smart or something i don't know but like it was just the the stories that when he when he was gone after the red wedding i think everybody breathed a sigh of relief you know the biggest problem for me was um after the fundraiser after the red wedding Stefan who I had introduced or I had welcomed into the organization and again there was a lot of political stuff if you went to ZUG you got basically put up in the hierarchy so I ended up under Stefan I couldn't go to ZUG because my girlfriend was pregnant and I couldn't leave to go to ZUG for a month and yeah I don't know Stefan was I don't know. High energy, high anxiety dude. It was a weird thing.

**[32:19] SPEAKER_03: He was smoking the stereotypical amount of cigarettes at the time.

**[32:22] SPEAKER_02: The stereotypical amount? That dude lived... He had a vape that he puffed Oh, you're right. It was a vape. It was a vape. It was clouds of smoke. And so I went, you know, with DevCon Zero, I went and spent a week with them in the office in London. And, dude, Stefan, if you weren't having a fucking panic attack, Stefan couldn't tell you were working. it was crazy and he would pace around this co-working space like nobody else was there just the whole place looked like a fucking rave dude like i think he got kicked out because he was trying to film a tv show and vaping too much and he had bought like fifty thousand dollars worth of camera equipment because his dream was to start a tv show or something on the ethereum budget

**[32:57] SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I heard that London location was pretty special.

**[33:01] SPEAKER_02: It was weird, man.

**[33:02] SPEAKER_00: Did you say you were never in Zug?

**[33:04] SPEAKER_02: No, I never went. My girlfriend at the time was pregnant. I had spent a month in Panama with Eric Voorhees and his team while she was pregnant. Honestly, in retrospect, if I could go to... It's hard to know how things would have played out because of the political stuff. I was not political. I didn't have any strategy. I was not prepared for any of that shit. My... I just tried to be the most authentic, trustworthy, do-what-I-say person, good to everybody. That's how I survived as long as I did. I don't really do politics. All that stuff was really weird.

**[33:36] SPEAKER_00: I mean, all of this was prior to both the crowd sale and... the formation of the Ethereum Foundation, right? So the Red Wedding was 3rd of June 2014, where you had that, I guess, that final decision of the foundation happening versus the for profit because you had uh we had people coming notably answer media oreo coming to uh zoob at that point to sign papers right you know it was it was to do with that swiss uh legal entity and then it was like yep no we're not signing the papers the big mess uh and then the foundation uh, was, was July that that was, uh, incorporated and you still have the crowd sale ongoing through July and August. So yeah. And that was a hell of a long span of time.

**[34:16] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. We kept saying two weeks. I don't know. That was a meme for a very long time. Two weeks, two weeks, two weeks.

**[34:21] SPEAKER_00: Well, the website that was up at the time of the Miami conference was showing a countdown to the first of February. That was when the sales were going to start.

**[34:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And then, you know, I was with Vitalik when the sale was launched. Uh, we had hung out all day in San Francisco. We were in the Westfield mall in the food court for, uh, uh, he needed wifi. Um, and he was just sitting there and he just looked up at me and he goes, Oh, the crowd. So I went live. Um, because that wasn't planned. I don't know if Taylor talked to you about that, uh, when you, uh, was an accidental launch was it it was an accident i don't know you have to ask taylor about that but yeah i guess he accidentally accidentally hit the button because you know it was legal like that's what kept happening they kept saying we're waiting on legal we're waiting on legal we're waiting on illegal like legal in retrospect right so you and kieran must have met each other a little bit yeah various times yeah, we've, we've actually hung out more probably in the last five years than we did back then. Um, yeah.

**[35:06] SPEAKER_00: And I guess that Kieran, you saw more of that sort of New York legal side of things.

**[35:10] SPEAKER_03: yeah so okay this is a good good tie-in point so uh and and bob at your request of course i was digging through the emails trying to piece together some pieces of the timeline you know yesterday day before so i had um I think by March I was talking with Vitalik and, you know, I was in academia at that time, and he kind of found it useful to bounce like protocol, economic modeling stuff. off you know like i was like good at reading the white papers and understand what they were doing i could you know still code today but that's sort of we ended up talking about like how the thing should work at a you know theory protocol level more than an implementation level and that kind of I guess, and this was covered in the Red Wedding time, there was a discussion of the usage of funds that ended up on a whiteboard or something. And a lot of it was theoretically earmarked for a research group that meant to solve hard problems like scalability. in crypto that, you know, like in practice, people have sort of solved today and not by any of the means we imagined exactly. But, you know, they've been solved to some degree at least. um like with layer twos for instance um scalability was very much anticipated as a problem and you know it took a couple years but you know we had like 55 dollar fees on nft transfers at some point um so i think um metallic sort of like uh talk we talked about this for a little bit and then he kind of like blessed me as like the representative who's currently in academia i started contacting people and trying to get them interested in ethereum and then doing like research related to it in general we even like set a legal entity up for a separate research group at some point. And I'm trying to remember, so Texture, we mostly worked together just on the site, basically. Like, I guess you were like, you know, web designer at that time. But I'm trying to remember.

**[36:45] SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I was doing web design. We had talked about the CRG, Cryptocurrency Research Group. And I was like, that's cool. Let me build a website. I remember throwing, you know, faces on it. And then it just kind of puttered out, which, you know, it's... you know, like, um, I, it would have, it would have been a like cool thing, fun thing. I don't know. Um, but also, uh, there's a story about D Oreo, not anyways. I like, I didn't know people were getting paid for a long time. And, um, I, uh, was like living on my sister's love seat in her one bedroom apartment with my daughter. Cause I was like fucking homeless, uh, and working on Ethereum as much as I could, uh, like multiple other jobs, uh, to, to try to make money. And, uh, I contact or D'Orio contacted me one day cause he was, you know, he was in the earlier days, like the primary contact, um, that I would talk to the most. And he called me and he asked me for a favor. And, uh, I was like, yeah, man, no problem. And I said, Hey, by the way, if you, you know, like, listen, I'm in a bad spot right now. Is there any way I could get like back pay for 10 grand, which, you know, was not much. And this dude just says, Oh no. And I was like, what the fuck? Anyways, I talked to Vitalik. The way it goes back to the CRG is the CRG was supposed to pay me $5,000. So you owe me $5,000, Kieran. I don't know, you know, given that it was so early, if you could just pay me an ETH relative to the price at that time, that'd be sick. Exactly.

**[37:49] SPEAKER_03: 20 cents was the presale price. Yeah, something like that. So it'd be like quite the amount of ETH.

**[37:53] SPEAKER_02: Yeah, so just like 15,000 ETH and we'll call it even.

**[37:56] SPEAKER_03: All right.

**[37:58] SPEAKER_02: All right.

**[37:59] SPEAKER_00: But yeah, I mean, I guess, you know, many, that was the case for many people through those months, you know, for some people that was nine, 10 months of unpaid contribution.

**[38:06] SPEAKER_03: My memory is also that Anthony was the main force behind sort of actually not quite stopping, but delaying the funding to the CCRG. So like somehow we got it, some of it way later. Diorio. Diorio, yeah.

**[38:15] SPEAKER_02: um yeah i mean i don't know in retrospect if i had known that i mean i know you said she was a nightmare but she did offer to hire me back into the ethereum foundation but i uh i didn't feel i don't know it was a time where i didn't really feel like uh working i'd been a little burnt out from the previous few years so um yeah you know maybe if i'd accepted that uh

**[38:29] SPEAKER_00: She should have minged you. Don't worry, you wouldn't have lasted long if she came back.

**[38:34] SPEAKER_02: Maybe, maybe, maybe. Everyone got minged. If she was like Stefan, then yeah, that high energy, like stress stuff. But I don't know. I was a little bit more.

**[38:41] SPEAKER_00: but like yeah good yeah so so uh anthony the oreo not you yeah uh incorporated um ethereum canada in february actually but it was about it was just a few days before everyone went to zoog so his thought i guess was everything was going to happen out of toronto but that didn't happen You had Ethereum Swiss got formed in Switzerland somewhere in April, I think. You had GAV incorporating Ethereum Dev in Berlin. Jeff in Amsterdam, though, that took quite a few months, more legalities to it. And there was an Ethereum... in London as well. Most of those FDev ones were kind of co-founded by Vitalik and Gav and Jeff and Mihai kind of group. Yeah, it was only the the Toronto one there where it was that I could see Anthony was a director. I don't think he was ever a director on any of the other legal entities. They were basically the, you know, the, the debt people, um, and all Mihai and Taylor. Um, but, but yeah, when, when you'd had the crowd sale and the, the had been formed and then were the recipients of those funds, there was a whole power grab of a mess of how those funds went out and, know yeah who how that was done and uh in in cryptopians it talks about gav maybe wanting to like grab all of the money straight into dev but then it's like that's probably not legal and it's probably not a good idea either and joe wanting to do it sort of a milestone based slow delivery which is i think what it sort of ended up being but you did have this sort of weird situation where um You'd say, oh, do you work for the Ethereum Foundation? But very few people actually work for the Ethereum Foundation. Most people were actually working as staff or contractors for these for-profit legal entities, which were sort of doing the work.

**[40:12] SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I guess they must have got it kind of like having now run a business for a long time. You've got to set up sensible contracts and IP agreements. Sometimes that looks like an intercompany agreement. And then if you do it in the buttoned-up way, there's a lot of headache associated with such things. I think it was a hell of a lot looser than that.

**[40:28] SPEAKER_00: i have a a strong memory yes of like a let's just put all the money in this other legal entity discussion going on like during the whole red week wedding week you know so yes man yes um and and yes the majority of those legal entities have since been shut down um that was something that ming did over the course of her time was tidy up all of this like corporate mess that was maybe not really even required in the first place but uh um yeah I mean I think yeah good sorry well they could have just worked for the foundation but I guess they didn't they didn't want to be in Switzerland which maybe was part of it and I remember this was yeah it well this was another funny thing right with the uh with the uh with the spaceship

**[40:57] SPEAKER_02: um yeah i mean i don't know in retrospect if i had known that i mean i know you said she was a nightmare but she did offer to hire me back into the ethereum foundation but i uh i didn't feel i don't know it was a time where i didn't really feel like uh working i'd been a little burnt out from the previous few years so um yeah you know maybe if i'd accepted that uh

**[41:09] SPEAKER_00: No, sorry. You're not known enough. I don't know. Oh, no. You're not being loud enough.

**[41:13] SPEAKER_02: No, it's all right. I only have the number of followers I do because of a couple of jokes I made, one of them being texture pongs. I very much don't mind being lost to history if it means I'm not on someone's let's rob the sky list.

**[41:25] SPEAKER_00: Well, I think that's maybe a good kind of place to wrap up. Yeah, don't worry. So I wish you all the very best and enjoy your life.

**[41:32] SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Well, Bob, thanks for having me on. If you want to have me on again, I'm more than happy to always give you my time. Good to talk to you, Kieran.

**[41:38] SPEAKER_03: It's been not too long. Great to chat again and we'll do it again soon.

**[41:42] SPEAKER_02: Maybe so. Maybe we'll see you soon. Thanks for everybody who's come to listen. Don't follow me.

**[41:47] SPEAKER_00: Thanks a lot. Texture is IamTexture on Twitter. Have you got any other questions?

**[41:52] SPEAKER_02: websites or anything places that you'd like to point people no i'm not no just okay have a nice night have a nice day whatever you're at morning thanks so much okay cheers everyone bye