**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** Can you still hear me? Let's put them back in after a chat. I can. Lock and load. Can you guys confirm we're live on Twitter and YouTube? Actually, how do I join the YouTube one? Okay, I see it live on my laptop. Okay. Can you speak? Yeah. Live testing. Yo, yo. Making sure this works. Can you hear us?

**[00:20] SPEAKER_05:** Hopefully there's no horrible echo like last week. Okay, I hear you. I'm going to drop that. I hear some echo. Okay, yeah. Well, the echo is from my laptop, I think. Cool. I'm going to mute and then try the Twitter audio.

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, can you confirm, Jim? It says the stream hasn't started yet since it's scheduled for broadcast at 5 on Twitter. Oh, interesting. So I see a preview. Yeah, let's check at 5. But you can see on YouTube, right? Let me load the YouTube.

**[00:49] SPEAKER_04:** Just going to mute. Audio is good on YouTube and everything. Okay. Let's just wait until five and just make sure everything comes up. The tube. Things can stop in the tubes.

**[01:00] SPEAKER_05:** I can't remember. At some point in my life, I was friends with a British person who made reference to the tube, but it definitely was pronounced tube, C-H-U-B-E. Quite likely, yes. Great. Twitter's up. Audio's good, and so is the visual. Okay. Taking you off the stage. Thanks. So from StreamYard, are we able to see people trickling in or not really? It doesn't look like it. It does not appear so. So I think we can do it on YouTube, but I'm just trying to keep an eye on it in the background here. Because we could see if there were comments, but yeah, it doesn't seem like it's... I suppose we could try to join without audio, potentially, and just see. Also, so it's not a space, right? It's a live? It is a live on Twitter, yes. I wonder how do I, oh, I'm checking the Telegram. Okay, so we already had the links on the Telegram, which I guess we should probably repost. Yeah. So I can see the live, I can see us. Okay, Michael's posting it. I mean, I guess we should probably start in a second. Yeah, we can wait. Let's just wait a few more minutes. But it's a different feel from the... Okay, why do they have Spaces and Live? It's very confusing. Spaces are no video, but they're like a little more interactive. Yeah. The Live is just like you just sort of see or the broadcast here. Yes. Like I'm just sort of looking back at myself. Yeah. And it has views on it kind of, but that's it. Okay, I see some comments. Hey, Michael. Hey, Strato Mercado. Appreciate it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We are still working through our AV issues, so. It's a constant state of affairs, it seems. It is. Lots of learning curve in the content creator game. Every startup founder, unwitting content creator. We didn't want the world to be this way. Actually, maybe it's better. It's going to go direct to the audience in a sense. Although, is it really direct to audience if it's through the platform? It's like more direct than it could be. Exactly. I mean, the content is...

**[03:00] SPEAKER_04:** I mean, I do think we need to find a way to kind of bring people in. We are going to read some comments today, but we'd like to make it more interactive in the future. But it does seem like X does not want to play nice with any multi-channel platform. Doesn't even like links. No, it does not. It definitely does not. I feel like let's just... Okay, I think we can get started now. Let me just share my screen. So thank you everyone for joining. If there are any AV audio issues, if people were on last week, we were still trying to figure out our whole audio-visual setup. So we are continuing that journey. So if there's any problems, please let us know. Post on our Telegram or on any comment that's convenient. So today is a really exciting episode. We are announcing the winners of our Mercado V2 Trading, Bridging, and Testing Challenge. And yeah, it's been a really exciting time. I am filling in for Bob Summerow, our normal host who is on a long-delayed digital detox as well as honeymoon. So he won't—deserved break to you, Bob. Hope you're not watching, but you catch up later. And with me, I have Kieran James Lubin, our CEO and head of and whale on Strato Mercado testnet. How's everything going with you today, Kieran?

**[04:20] SPEAKER_05:** You know, good. I feel like shark is better than whale. Can sharks eat whales? I don't know. You know, like a blue whale is pretty big. Most whales are big, but there are some smaller, you know, there are some smaller whales. But I think on average, whales are going to be bigger than sharks. Isn't there a whale shark? Maybe you could be a little bit of both. Yeah, a little bit of both.

**[04:40] SPEAKER_04:** So let me share my screen, because we're going to jump right into announcing the winners today. So as everyone knows from the contest who has participated, first of all, we want to say thank you to everyone participating. We got well over 30 participants this time, nearly doubling the amount of participants we had back in January, where we had roughly about 20. So we had—and this was July. Thank you. Back in July. Time is going so fast. And this challenge was particularly hard because we want to kind of test the application and simulate real-world events. So anyone that was following in the contest channel could see that there were special events that I triggered on the platform where there were sudden price jumps. There were airdrops. There were all kinds of different events that affected the flow of the contest and made different opportunities, both on the downside and upside. And Kieran, can you confirm with everyone, I never shared when those events were happening ahead of time. It's true, yeah.

**[05:40] SPEAKER_05:** I even—you know, I think Victor may have specifically punished me, even though I was ineligible for the prize. Like, you know, my gym hours are kind of predictable. And I sense that Victor put some of them when he knew I would, like, you know, be on the treadmill or lifting some weights or something and unable to reap the profits that I normally do.

**[05:58] SPEAKER_04:** Well, I cannot confirm or deny that I specifically looked at your calendar, but I can confirm I do have access to your calendar. So it may or may not have happened. Anyways, there were—you know, what was different from the July contest is the July contest was really simply about trading. We gave everyone one of each asset and they traded. And also we basically had a bug prize, basically based on volume of bugs. So this time we wanted to make things a little bit more focused. We gave people assets on the Sepolia Ethereum testnet that they had to bridge into the application. Like I said, we had these random events that happened throughout the contest. And then instead of giving like generic bug prizes, we gave two sort of bug prizes: one for the worst exploit, which was something that caused loss of funds, and then a best suggested improvement prize, which is a specific improvement that would make it easier to use the application. And we internally kind of rated all the submissions that we got, and then we came up with the winners. So with that, I'm going to share a screen capture of the leaderboard as of yesterday, 5 p.m., when the contest ended. Kieran, you are at the top, but as it says, you're prize ineligible. Can you read out the name of who got the prize? Yeah, I don't know quite how to pronounce this, but it's Aspa. I'm going to go with Aspa. Yeah. They gave you a good run for your money, though, I will say.

**[07:20] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I guess, like, the balance says that both of us caught most of the profit-making opportunities that were available in the system, so...

**[07:28] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, so people really wanted to know, where did you get so much profit from? Because I think when you bridged in all your assets, you would have around 3,500 in that neighborhood. Like, no, around 3,100 if you just bridged in the system. How did you wind up getting to like 5,400?

**[07:44] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, so starting balance, yeah, I'm going to say 3,300, 3,200, thereabouts. So you go from zero to about 3,300 when you complete the bridging. There were two bridging activities. One gave you, I guess it was like half an ETH, and the other gave some amount of USDST, which you also had some just for registering on the network. Part of the trick in all of this, in this state of affairs, is that we generally encouraged, and it's a little bit tricky right now, like if you wanted to use the same address on Facebook—well, I was going to say mainnet, but Sepolia really—and our network, technically we're capable of it, but we're not really allowing it in the app. So there were two addresses you had to input. I think people got confused. So yeah, the first step is bridging in everything. And then I did find, as with the last contest, that there—so generally speaking, there are kind of two prices in our system. There are oracle, sort of like governance-controlled, if you will, spot prices, and that's what drives liquidations and the valuation of all the assets in there. And sort of with that—maybe the one way to think of it is if this asset existed anywhere in the world, what would it be worth? People know what gold is worth. So if you withdrew the asset, you could sell it for roughly around that—probably the spot price. Whereas swap pools, for instance, are intrinsic to the system and theoretically should converge to the oracle price when you're really running the thing, because you could bridge in and out. And so there would be an arb, like trading across two exchanges, too. There would be an arb if the pool price diverges from the spot price that you could take advantage of. And there was actually, there was a little bit of arb in the system. So even before any of these special events, sometimes like the ETH price would be too high because people are excited about rotating into ETH or wrapped Bitcoin got high because people rotated into that, for instance. And there wasn't that much way to bring the price down. There was not too much sell pressure on it, for instance. So it kind of stayed high, I think. But mostly our prices had the pool price match the spot price, except when Victor—so Victor manipulated both as part of the contest, of course, at different times. So moving the spot price up lets people sell. Moving the spot price down—sorry, moving the swap, the pool price up means if you're holding that thing already, you can sell and book a profit. If you move the pool price down, and we just did this with like admin mints, you know, on the testnet, in effect. If you move the pool price down, this gives a buying opportunity. And I actually did. So there were a couple of times when the pool prices were low and I would borrow using our CDP mechanism and buy as much as I could of the pool—the asset that was underpriced. And I would, you know—and so there was a little bit of arb there too, because the borrowing—and I would loop it, right? So the borrowing power you would get would be proportional to the spot price. And so you could just kind of keep buying that same asset so long as the pool price was below the spot price and it was instant profit. So I think that was most of the balance or different situations where that was. There were also like, if you applied quickly, you would, you know, get, let's say, 50 USDST. There was a bonus for bridging out, just so that we would test bridging out, which I got. And there were liquidations. I was very briefly going to be liquidatable because Victor created a very big price crash, but I got to it in time before anyone could liquidate me. And it was a position that was kind of healthy. It was at like 1.8 health factor, but I think Victor dropped the price like 50% or something. Yeah, I took some big swings because I wanted to exert my godlike or Fed Chair-like power as much as I could. Wow.