**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** We're live for real.

**[00:01] SPEAKER_01:** We are live. Yes.

**[00:02] SPEAKER_02:** We're live and we're live. So maybe this won't be so meaningful for the rest of you, but it is November 5 today, which in the UK is a very famous day on the calendar because it's Bonfire Night or Guy Fawkes Night, celebrating the burning at the stake, I guess, of Guy Fawkes, who was the guy who tried to blow up the Parliament in the mid-seventeenth century. Oh, the V for Vendetta guy. V for Vendetta. So that's based on that. I mean, the poem, right, says "Remember, remember," right in the first line. Right? So, like, that's right. So basically, the deal there was that, I guess, annually, you had the king giving the speech in front of Parliament. So you had basically the royalty and all of the elite sitting in the hall. They were stuffing barrels of gunpowder underneath, but it was discovered at the last minute. So then there you go. You now have burning of Guy Fawkes in effigy on Bonfire Night to celebrate that it didn't happen. And yeah, so you have a doll or whatever that's the guy that you put on the fire. So anyway, happy Bonfire Night, everybody.

**[01:17] SPEAKER_03:** Happy Bonfire Night.

**[01:18] SPEAKER_01:** We should probably introduce Michael because he's a special guest.

**[01:21] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Is he a—I guess he's a guest. I mean, he's a—

**[01:24] SPEAKER_03:** We'll make him a regular, I assume. But yeah, you guys see me on the Telegram. Michael, do you wanna introduce yourself quickly?

**[01:30] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Yeah. I work on the sales side of the team. I'm gonna be introducing the app today to you guys, and I hope you're excited.

**[01:36] SPEAKER_01:** Well, you work sales. You're a dev. You're a front-end dev. You know, like, you do a bunch of different stuff on the team. So yeah. Got the moves.

**[01:43] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So what we—sorry. Go ahead. Let me just kick off. Hi. Hello, everybody. Welcome. Welcome. So we did it. We launched V2. It happened. How does that feel? Man—

**[01:55] SPEAKER_02:** Actually, I think, Bob, we may not be as tired, you know. Oh, did—oh, he's gone away. Okay.

**[02:01] SPEAKER_01:** He's frozen.

**[02:02] SPEAKER_00:** He was probably asleep. Said. Yes.

**[02:04] SPEAKER_01:** Well, there were a lot of sleepless nights and—

**[02:06] SPEAKER_02:** Working through weekends and your response—oh, you are back. Oh. Back. Oh, it was my—it was my problem. Okay. Yeah. It started spinning everything for a second, and then you all came back. Yeah. I was very excited.

**[02:17] SPEAKER_00:** Say again? So how's V2 being live? How's that feel?

**[02:20] SPEAKER_02:** Much better than before. You know? It's still—you never—it's a funny thing. Do you ever feel good for a sustained period? Like, I think not, but extremely happy that it's live. I think it would be maybe interesting for the audience to go into a little bit of what it is and also why it took so long. So we—to the 2024—we started to realize that there was a lot of demand for DeFi-type features. So basically, Marketplace Version 1, or Mercado Version 1, if you will, was more NFT-ish. We had interesting and exotic things that might be numbered, and the breadth of them. So this was—we had carbon offsets trading on there, whiskey barrels. Michael moved a lot of collectible shoes through the system. So truly, you know, fairly unique, at least down to having a serial number or sometimes very unique stuff. So there is occasional one-of-ones on there. We dipped our toes into the art market a little bit with some collabs. And also some—and then more financialized stuff too. So the metals in particular being something that we've had for a long time. And we kind of saw the most demand for the most financialized items, and it sort of led us to realize what people want from this technology. I mean, one way or another, I think in the course of the company, obviously, we did very enterprise stuff, a lot in the supply chain, and that kind of actually led very naturally to the unique item focus. But, you know, often everything in the blockchain space pulls back to some sort of financialization, and we kind of decided to stop resisting this impulse, you know, as the market seemed to be demanding it. So we released—the other thing we realized is that, in some ways—so, you know, we say your goal is to tokenize everything. Like, you want all manner of real-world value to be on-chain, existing alongside truly digital-native assets like Bitcoin, ETH, and so on. What would get the world to do that? And we thought the answer was making liquid trading markets where they didn't exist prior, and that is definitely still part of it. But I think it is more about debt than it is about selling or transacting. Right? And so we kind of, on Marketplace Version 1, created a mechanism whereby you could borrow against collateral. It was sort of primitively done, but you could do it within the system. And it got great uptake. And then we said, alright, let's just make this stuff a little more DeFi. And it just turned out that—we were not expecting to do a relaunch. In fact, we were bringing folks on through Q1 and Q2, and TVL was rising and, you know, etcetera, more loan volumes and all that sort of thing. But we realized that we were hitting the limits of the system pretty quickly and that it would be just—you know, that we needed to at least change some of the way the internals worked. And, you know, we did a listing of our gold token with a small exchange. It was a good experience to work with them, but they had a hard time dealing with things as they were, and found that just everyone wants the ERC-20 style. And that to make the capabilities sort of show the best of DeFi, it was like a huge, huge effort that turned into a full relaunch, which was never the goal at the outset. But, you know, happy to be on the other side of it. The system is definitely way better. It's a little bit different. There are some areas where we kind of took a shortcut on Version 1 that made it kind of easy, and we've gone and made it, say, more decentralized now, which is definitely better, but there could be rough edges around it. As a for instance, we often had fixed pricing on Marketplace Version 1 or pure spot pricing, and we have swap pools now, which is great in that they let the market determine the price and get third-party liquidity and so forth. But then there's just more variability at any given trade execution. And so these things will all sort of work themselves out over time, but huge effort. It's way better. Way better. But we ended up in more of a different place than I intended at the outset.

**[07:10] SPEAKER_01:** Let me just throw it over to, say, Victor just on all this. Yeah. I think the thing is that, really, I think our core insight was really—if you think about how people in the real world really accumulate wealth, it's really through small accumulation over time of interest. You know? Like, think about a savings account, a retirement account, all of these things. People aren't day trading constantly. Right? So what we realized is that it wasn't enough to simply be able to buy new exotic—or not even exotic—but tokenized things in the real world, but really to turn those into things that were revenue-generating for you individually and earning over time. So it should—you should be able to have multiple ways, except for trading, to earn things. And we realized that DeFi had kind of answered this, but it did it in a way that was too complicated for the vast majority of people to understand. I mean, it was only a year ago that Vitalik himself was like, "Someone needs to explain to me where DeFi yields are coming from." Right? Like, if he couldn't understand it, how could the rest of the world kind of get into it? And we wanted to build a system that would allow the rest of the world to really kind of get those DeFi earning potentials. And, you know, I think there were two things that really came out of it. One is that we had to kind of combine the pool of assets to not just be about real-world liquid assets, which we started with, but we also had to bring in high-quality crypto assets. And then the second thing is that we have to offer different paths of earning. Like, you could be able to put some of those assets into a liquidity pool that you would lend out to other people and get interest on that. You would be able to go into swap pools and see when their prices differ. You should be able to earn directly if you put some of your things into a savings account that people could offer. So basically, V2 offers all of those paths for users, which we're really, really excited about.