**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** Okay, we are live and we have a very special episode today. We are talking about the future of art and NFTs, and we're joined by special guest and very old friend, John Crane. Welcome, John Crane. Hey, Victor. Hey, everyone. Good to see you guys. Thanks for having me.

**[00:14] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah, sure. Um, so yeah, I, let's see, my crypto journey started in around 2015, uh, going to the consensus hackathon where I met, um, at least, you know, three of the other folks on this call there. Um, yeah, I was, you know, before that, my background was kind of in art and technology. I worked in advertising. I studied architecture and structural engineering for undergrad and. Yeah, I was always really interested in when crypto and blockchain were going to intersect more with kind of the consumer tech and just, you know, things that were a little bit past, you know, finance and trading. And so, yeah, when I saw NFTs, it was an instant win for digital art. So it doubled down immediately.

**[01:23] SPEAKER_03:** Do you remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally? Obviously, we met there, but like, what was that? Yeah. No, so I was kind of hanging out with the New York Bitcoin crowd. Yeah, I had actually met

**[01:29] SPEAKER_06:** I think John Lillick, which I forgot, but I met him at the like the New York Bitcoin Center. I don't know if you guys remember that. Yeah, we do. Yeah. Yeah. So I was hanging around and actually I was like I was super into counterparty. So I was very much like Ethereum is too complicated. You know, Vitalik's full of shit. It's not going to work. And then the network launched and I was like, OK, I was wrong. Like, this is actually super cool. Like, you know, I have no problem changing. I was like. i was totally wrong this is amazing and i was just like googling ethereum blockchain hacking i was like trying to find uh like get deeper involved you know i was trying to like quit my day job and go full-time crypto and so then i i think i just googled it and it was like oh there's this hackathon in two weeks and i applied uh with charles and then yeah met you guys

**[02:38] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah. And, and to be clear, you, uh, to let everyone know that, uh, we were blown away by you and your brothers, Charles's project. And we gave you, I think your first job, both of you in web three, right? We gave you the, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Exactly. Yeah. I think I, I think the, like the Monday after, I don't like, I, I feel like I immediately quit and started working with you guys full time on block apps. Yeah. Well, I, we, I think we tried to give you a job on the spot cause you guys were, yeah, exactly.

**[03:14] SPEAKER_06:** There was like a couple week consulting transition period while, you know. Yeah, I think that's true. Yeah. Maybe it was like we started like hourly, like, you know, getting to know each other a little bit and then full time. Yeah. So with Counterparty, you could have been on Krista Rose Tech. Yeah, exactly. If only.

**[03:29] SPEAKER_04:** So what inspired SuperRare? Like, you know, I know you, when you were working with us, you kind of became our head of product and you were working on a bunch of those enterprise implementations. But what triggered you to kind of create SuperRare, which is for anyone who doesn't know, one of the first NFT platforms really out there.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah, I, well, it was super interesting, right? You know, like we were all kind of on the ground floor at the consensus office or like, you know, at least me and Kieran are hanging out there and like watching the ICO boom happen was fascinating. Cause I was like, I remember me and Kieran talked a bunch about, you know, ERC 20 tokens and like, I found it was super interesting that it was this very small bit of standard, super simple protocol, very simple code. But the adoption created this massive wealth generation. And even if there were also lots of scams, I'd say generally net positive for humans and the economy. It was incredible to see that happen. and so then i saw some of the standards conversations around erc721 and like i saw the crypto punks launch um and i was like well this is pretty crazy if you think about the consumer web it's all uh you know an image and a title tag and some metadata so like it could be that like the entire consumer web turns into like nfts and that you know like I don't know exactly what the business model is going to look like, but the total addressable market is probably pretty large. So that got me into NFTs. And then on the flip side of that, I was also kind of in and around the New York art scene, like going to the art fairs. I had friends who were looking for gallery representation and kind of part of the business of art. And it's just seemed obvious. I was like, oh, there's now a way to kind of like truly own digital assets. And this is obviously going to apply to digital art. So it's kind of like the marriage of, you know, like my interest in the tech side, but then also my interests and passions around art.

**[05:37] SPEAKER_04:** And like, what was it like to be at the forefront of like the NFT explosion? Because you guys, like, I know for a long time you were building and it was like, oh, you know, like, how's it going? And, you know, like, no one is really paying attention. And all of a sudden, you know, next day, everyone's talking about NFTs.

**[05:49] SPEAKER_06:** It was absolutely crazy. It was hard to be like, it was just like completely surreal the whole time. Like it felt like a dream. Like we, you know, we started in 2018. We, you know, we were, we tried to raise money. It never really worked. Like by the time we raised, we were already, you know, cashflow positive and like making more than we were paying ourselves. So that's best situation to possibly be. Yeah. It was like, it was much easier to raise then than when I was like, I have this really cool idea. Um, so it was yeah it was like you know it was a grind it was super volatile many times i was just like what am i doing with my life um but uh yeah then it just it just really started like i remember the numbers were like doubling every month for a while like i remember it was october 2020 it was our first million dollar month in volume and i was just like this is wild because but you 12 months ago, we were like, all right. So the volume was like $5,000. We made a couple hundred bucks. Okay. Yeah.

**[07:04] SPEAKER_03:** Do you guys think of it more like it should be like a representative democracy? Like, should it be like passing bills in there? I think they're like, they're proposals and there's like delegation usually is the model. Yeah. It can also be like, just like you got a couple of leaders, but the stake could call a confidence vote or something. Or like MetaDAO too. I haven't tried it yet, but what's that? Like MetaDAO is trying to do that sort of thing. Yeah.

**[07:23] SPEAKER_06:** You know, early on, I was like part of like what got me excited about Bitcoin and Ethereum is just the idea of these networks where, you know, the users of the networks also participate in upside of the network. You know, like there there's the, you know, like the FAP protocol article that was, you know, super popular like 2016. So just like thinking about like, okay, what does monetization look like? And, you know, can you build platforms that are, you know, like they're more like collaborative than extractive, where it's like, you know, if you're meta, you're just like, I'm just going to extract as much metadata and, you know, sell ads, you know, which is a great business, but partially for me, it was almost like a thought experiment of like, is it possible to build a network where you don't have to sell ads? And it could be like, maybe it's a marketplace as the business model. And then, you know, kind of, it's like collective ownership via the token. So yeah, I was, you know, drinking, drinking a lot of the crypto Kool-Aid at the time.

**[08:19] SPEAKER_04:** So what do you think the biggest challenge was in running a DAO? Because I think all of us had that sort of as an ideal state with the crypto Kool-Aid, you know, running things completely decentralized. What do you think are, you know, the challenges you faced when you did it and that are still out there, do you think?

**[08:31] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah i mean i think still one of the bigger challenges is regulatory like you have you're like you're trying to read the tea leaves and then rather than just making like the bet you're like okay this is the simplest best decision you're like okay well this is not clear what this means so maybe we should do this and like how do we you know not get in trouble for trying to experiment um and it's obviously you know the position is friendlier but there's still no clear like rules yeah it's like the obviously like the Gensler era of you know enforcement the Dark Ages you know Gary's going to be turning up for a job somewhere soon isn't it yeah man do you think about the advice

**[09:13] SPEAKER_03:** Do you think of it more like it should be like a representative democracy? Like, should it be like passing bills in there? I think they're like, they're proposals and there's like delegation usually is the model. Yeah. It can also be like, just like you got a couple of leaders, but the stake could call a confidence vote or something. Or like MetaDAO too. I haven't tried it yet, but what's that? Like MetaDAO is trying to do that sort of thing. Yeah.

**[09:27] SPEAKER_06:** I think, I think it kind of depends on like specifically what you're doing. You know, if it's something like, you know, I mean, Bitcoin and Ethereum are obviously not DAOs, but just like, you know, where it's like if small changes can have potentially like catastrophic impact, I think that's one thing. If, you know, it's, you know, like super rare where it's like, if there's a, there's a low level protocol and there's application and like, you know, other than like the escrow contracts for auctions and things like the stakes are like fairly low. I do kind of like the idea of like you sort of like if you can empower like a team or a few individuals to kind of just keep going and then the token holders can say like tell people to stop versus like having to approve everything like that's a very silly arduous process and I feel like it should be more like okay if you're it's like veering off in the wrong direction you can like there's a way to kind of like raise your voice and have influence it but like

**[10:23] SPEAKER_04:** you know, having a vote on like what color the button should be or something is very absurd. I'm curious, like, you know, given that you're a decentralization advocate, how do you balance like being a curated kind of platform and being open? You know, like, how do you think about those two? Because I think one of the advantages of SuperRare with the curation side in art, you keep the quality very, very high. And, um, unlike, you know, more marketplace type NFT platforms, which just frankly puts a ton of crap out there. So how do you balance those two and kind of keep decentralized? Yeah, no, it is. I mean, it's kind of challenging. It's almost, uh, almost a paradox. Um, I think.

**[10:58] SPEAKER_06:** You know, we've kind of always taken the like minimal decentralization. So it's like you have it where it's useful. And then you're like, one example is like, we were like talking about like token models early on. It was like, maybe we'll have token holders vote on artists. And I was just like, that sounds like the most dramatic, terrible thing I could ever imagine. You know, it's like people voting, like your art's terrible. Like you're like, oh my word.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_04:** I mean, in the pumped-up fun streamer heyday, I think that it could have really worked during that period of time. Yeah, you know, maybe we could have people streaming. Yeah, it's like live voting, like, is the art good or bad? Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide. I did myself on a dating project once where you basically had to be voted in based on your looks, which just seems horrible. Yeah. Very, very evil. Remember those? Yes. Hot or not. Just brutal. Especially in places, the art industry can be quite vicious.

**[11:46] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah, it's challenging and good art is subjective. I feel like the on-chain auctions, escrow on-chain, that makes a lot of sense. On-chain voting for which artists are good, that's kind of like, let people who are like making decisions, like do their thing. And then if it starts to be, you know, like if things get out of hand, maybe like the token holders can like, you know, raise awareness, but, um, yeah, yeah. And like part of it too, I mean, actually early on, we were like, thought we would be more of an open platform. And then as things progressed, there were more tools, like, you know, we were just trying, it was like, we were building things, trying to add value and, there's a ton of open tooling. So like early on, we kind of thought we might have like super rare as like the ultra curated view into the market. And then maybe you have like, you know, another kind of like open platform that's anyone could use.

**[12:38] SPEAKER_04:** So what do you think the future of just generally like art and NFTs? Can I jump in on this? Yeah, please. Take a take on it. So in DeFi, we're starting to see, like as the administration has cleared the way to some extent, It seems like there was a pent up demand for something like a TradFi DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet, but it's getting to just be five. I see the path to that happening. Do you think it's NFTs really stay sort of like a distinct asset class forever? I know maybe you could talk about your gallery. I know you started to do a lot of physical sales.

**[13:05] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah. Et cetera. Like, does it kind of, or, you know, do they merge? Do they not? Do they? Yeah. Like trad art become NFT art and digital art or like. Yeah. I, you know, I like the NFT stuff. I do think kind of just like eventually fades into the background. Like the real zero to one is, you know, cryptographically secure provenance. So, you know, you could use that for physical art. You could use it for digital. I think it was like, more of a breakthrough with digital because you can kind of argue the token is the art you now have this you know more liquid asset um so for art specifically yeah it's kind of just becoming part of the market and i think you'll see nfts you know used with digital art obviously but also with physical art like no one's really if you like the lack of good data on provenance in the art market and collectibles in general is kind of amazing. It's still like, oh, there's a sticker on the back that says it was from this gallery. Probably it was. Probably it was? Nobody knows. And so... And also I think, you know, like a lot of people are like really trying to tie the physical asset to the digital asset, which I think is a waste of time personally. It's like, if you have the physical asset and you also have custody of the certificate of authenticity, like that's kind of good enough. You don't really need some complicated tech solution there. And it's hard to imagine a world in which, you know, like. collectors and like customers that you just want, like, I personally have like a higher perceived value for physical art that also has an NFT with it. Um, and I think in general, that trend continues. So I think digital art will kind of just become a bigger part of the contemporary art market. And then eventually we'll see NFTs used as certificates of authenticity, um, you know, for all, you know, high value objects.

**[14:56] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, I mean, one of the big things I didn't realize is that a friend of mine is an artist and she often gets a request for the value that was paid for it because someone wants to insure it, right? And there's this whole downstream kind of economy. Insurance, appraisal, lending, you need much better. And so it's like,

**[15:04] SPEAKER_06:** I mean, Kieran, you and I have talked about the lending stuff a little bit. I think the lending market for these types of assets is small just because there's not good information. You could probably really grow that pie quite a bit if you do have easier access to provenance information. Let me add a little on that front. So I felt having been more of an NFT style RWA marketplace for a while and gone more DeFi,

**[15:24] SPEAKER_03:** I thought that people wanted to tokenize to sell things at first, and this is true. But I think it is better that they tokenize to unlock liquidity in selling could be one way, but people kind of want to hold on to stuff. Like I don't want to sell my ETH. I don't want to sell my, you know, et cetera. Yeah. You would know better than us at the very high end of the market. You know, if you get like a wealth manager, they'll, they might extend some credit against your Picasso. Right. But for everybody else, and you probably have to have a lot of separate money for that too. You can't really like, I don't know if people fire sell their art, but tends to sit there. And I used to think that was bad, but maybe it should sit there. But the credit markets actually just make it liquid, you know, as we've as we've discussed before, which I think would be super cool. Like, yeah, I'm surprised we're getting into that world, but we're not. Yeah, I think we're seeing it. I feel like there's the green shoots of like, OK, here's what's possible. It totally makes sense. I think just.

**[16:25] SPEAKER_06:** Like nfts almost this is like they're a great you know like we talk a lot of people in crypto love talking about identity and stuff and like to me it's like nfts are like a beautiful very simple digital identity for whatever you can pack anything you want in that metadata it's just like packet full of stuff it's very simple they're unique point to one they're pointers to one specific thing

**[16:45] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, I mean, I love the way you talk about, you know, NFTs as certificates of authenticity, because I didn't realize this. We looked into like the physical art market for a while and like every auction at Sotheby's when they have a big piece, like they have to research it effectively from scratch, right? Like they have to build that entire chain of provenance with every piece that they do, which is an insane amount of work every single time. Yeah, it's a very high friction process.

**[17:06] SPEAKER_06:** Like the transactions are very, very high friction, which is good. You know, like depending on where your position is in the market, like obviously Sotheby's loves being the, you know, the keeper of all secrets and information. But I think that's clearly going to be disintermediated with technology. Any new assets or maybe are you guys, you know, just declare war on the auction houses, houses, you know, other high-end physical goods what uh yeah i mean we're focusing like our expansion like you know we launched the gallery earlier this year um offline gallery it's on the bowery um right next to new museum and you know we're showing physical digital art you know installations you know projections all sorts of different things and yeah i think like you know our view like If you look at the models, the galleries are not doing great business-wise. The auction houses are hurting.

**[17:52] SPEAKER_03:** I think everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model and... Stuff is so illiquid, right? I don't mean to interrupt, right? It's just, I think the norm is stuff sitting five years, 10 years, you know, and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money, probably get a bunch of transactions. Yeah. Just wait. Yeah, like 2021, people were just, you know, buying Picassos on their phones online. Yeah.

**[18:07] SPEAKER_06:** and crazy ape and crazy apes right so yeah everything every year ether rocks i remember when ether rocks were like the price is exploding and i was like this is truly amazing yeah um but yeah i think like the models have to change and you know just as like if you think what the internet's done as far as like shopping, right? It's like, you can price compare easily on your phone in any stores, right? There's no kind of like price arbitrage. You're like, you're going to look up the price of something. You can scan something figuring you're like, ask ChatGPT, what is, you know, what is this? How much should it cost? And so I think like, The art world has really, it has been like an insider's game of who knows who and like, what's the real price, like the marketed price versus like what was actually paid. And I think that's gonna like, it's kind of slowly like unwinding and we'll see, we'll end up with a market structure where pricing is just much more transparent. You can see things on chain. And I mean, I think that's you know, like that's kind of like part of the opportunity is as the market becomes more efficient, we'll have the best tools to to service the new structure.

**[18:59] SPEAKER_03:** I think everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model and... Stuff is so illiquid, right? I don't mean to interrupt, right? It's just, I think the norm is stuff sitting five years, 10 years, you know, and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money, probably get a bunch of transactions. Yeah. Just wait. Yeah, like 2021, people were just, you know, buying Picassos on their phones online. Yeah.

**[19:13] SPEAKER_06:** and crazy ape and crazy apes right so yeah everything every year ether rocks i remember when ether rocks were like the price is exploding and i was like this is truly amazing yeah um but yeah i think like the models have to change and you know just as like if you think what the internet's done as far as like shopping, right? It's like, you can price compare easily on your phone in any stores, right? There's no kind of like price arbitrage. You're like, you're going to look up the price of something. You can scan something figuring you're like, ask ChatGPT, what is, you know, what is this? How much should it cost? And so I think like, The art world has really, it has been like an insider's game of who knows who and like, what's the real price, like the marketed price versus like what was actually paid. And I think that's gonna like, it's kind of slowly like unwinding and we'll see, we'll end up with a market structure where pricing is just much more transparent. You can see things on chain. And I mean, I think that's you know, like that's kind of like part of the opportunity is as the market becomes more efficient, we'll have the best tools to to service the new structure.

**[20:13] SPEAKER_04:** Um, but do you, do you think like, you know, going back to the metadata and certificates of authority that proving some part was based, you know, done by a human will be valued into art or, or any kind of creation going forward? Yeah. I mean, I think, yeah, just like if you, you know, it's like, it's super amazing to see like the rate at which content's being created and like, you know,

**[20:31] SPEAKER_06:** people, it's like you can watch a video of like, that person didn't actually say that, but it looks like they did. I think that's where you're like, nobody ever answers a random phone number. If someone's calling you and it's not in your phone, you're like, I literally never answered this. Like, I don't know who does that. You'd have to be like pretty insane. And so it's sort of like, you've kind of certified like the numbers, you know, and I think it'll end up being the same with like content and like art and stuff where it's like, If it isn't signed somehow cryptographically, you'll probably just assume it's fake because there's no real way to know.

**[20:58] SPEAKER_04:** Okay, last question for you, because unless anyone else has one. What are you most excited about in any aspect of the blockchain space right now? Most excited? I mean, it's like...

**[21:03] SPEAKER_06:** It's obviously like, we, you know, like we've all been working on this for like a super long time, but I do think like, if you look at even just like, you know, BlackRock's putting treasuries on chain with different partners, like art's moving on chain, like, like everything literally is going to become, is moving on chain. Like, I think it's like, that's actually finally, it used to just be like a mantra people would say to like, you know, help themselves feel important. But like, I think we're finally getting there. We're like, holy fuck, like everything is moving on chain. Like that's actually happening. So it's like, you know, real world assets, digital assets. I think just like,

**[21:37] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, liquidity is increasing. I think it's generally net positive for everyone. It feels actually like it's finally happening. Yeah, it's taken way longer, 10 years, but we're still here and we're still doing it. We can make a thumbnail like the Ron Paul that's happening. Exactly. We need the mission accomplished banner. Yeah. Oh my goodness. Yeah, exactly. Well, John, thank you for your time. And as always, We're really glad that you're doing so well. And where can people find you and learn more about all the stuff you do? Yeah, on X, at SuperRare John, at SuperRare. Yeah, we're...

**[21:59] SPEAKER_06:** Yeah, you should also, there's currently a show at the gallery that's wrapping up, but we have a new, there's an X copy show December 10th. So if anyone's in town. Awesome. You said the manual at the gallery one more time. I missed it. Oh, yeah. Offline by SuperRare. Offline by SuperRare. Well, awesome. Thank you for joining us and take care, everyone. Thank you. Thanks for having me.