**[00:00] SPEAKER_05:** My name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad. of Bitcoin, and I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of $14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you ask me, then I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[00:02] SPEAKER_02:** That said, let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested in fact, like I, I don't know, I was like I came from an academic background, so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it, but, but I was like a little bit too above all that, like, oh, that's like a money thing, I'm not interested in that money world. So, uh, really, no, like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who was a, uh, an old friend of mine, and that, uh, Kieran had been following his blog, and, uh, Steve called me up, and he's like, uh, this guy Kieran just called me up, and you, you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so, uh, at first, I was like, uh, yeah, you know, I'm not interested in all this, this, uh, fake money thing, and I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something, this is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed, I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time, it was a test net.

**[00:05] SPEAKER_05:** Uh, and, uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So, well, I don't know, let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah, let's, uh, Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological, so I, you know, I was 2010, 2011, sounds like the same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two, right to that era. Um, and we'll talk in more detail, uh, but let's, let's hold on it for just a moment, uh, Vic, do you want to take it?

**[00:07] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think I became aware of it, um, around the same time as you. I was, I was, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I, I felt really disconnected from North America, so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts, and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWIT, that was like all technical podcasts, and one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast, Security Now, which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things, and he did, like, a couple episodes of Bitcoin, and I was like, you know, really, really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle, like, and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it, didn't get any Bitcoin, or if I did, uh, I think the rewards were like 50 at the time, or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice, at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office, and I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can, transfer money, and it's basically free internet magic money, and I was like, I, I honestly was kind of repelled by that, like, that kind of seemed like too nutty, even for me, at the time.

**[00:10] SPEAKER_05:** I never hated it, I was sort of just like not that interested, I guess, um, you know, I think, um, you know, from the East Coast, um, the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable, I think. Jimmy would long since been out in California, doing, like, a lot of, uh, stuff.

**[00:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, I guess I didn't hate it, I just felt I was too good for it, but I think I found the, like, everyone talked about, so I was fascinated, the technical aspect, like I said, like, you know, and it got me to read the white paper, and even, like, download the software, but I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like, who are saying, a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like, they were like kind of fanatical, like, there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off, I would say.

**[00:15] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track, and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship, and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it, but, yeah, I think it's sort of, it was too fringe to attract, like, the classically most successful, in some sense, people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against, not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs, like, in math or physics, or something, it's just like, the most horsepower wins, from a, you know, intellectual perspective, and I guess the hardest working horsepower, very few of those people got interested, um, and in, uh, you know, crypto, blockchain, a few cryptographers certainly did, and probably actually more established ones, um, as far as, uh, you know, compared to younger ones, like folks like Dan Bonet, etc., but, yeah, I think, I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess.

**[00:18] SPEAKER_00:** Sketchy, because most of the use cases that, like, I thought the technology was fascinating, but whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy, so I would always ask, like, what's the use case, why would you use it, and people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws, like, the big one in China, that I remember, is like, oh, I can transfer money, and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules, and stuff, and I was like, is that legal, like, no one would, you know, mention anything, afterwards, basically, yeah, well, I got over feeling, uh, too good for it, I'll tell you that, yeah, and we all did, yeah.

**[00:21] SPEAKER_05:** I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era, is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run-up. I believe Bitcoin went from like $30 bucks to $1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles, if you were a cynical person. So, somebody said, consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in, and it goes all the way up. And then, seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts, and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft, or merely collapsing asset values, or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And, sort of, crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But, I guess, the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew, who were not, quite crypto savvy, in the industry, et cetera, were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening, just getting into things.

**[00:25] SPEAKER_02:** I, what year was it, was it 2015, 2014, 2014, probably, right? I think Docs was 13. Let me check, yeah, okay, 13. Yeah, okay, so that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time, um, uh, I was new enough to it that it was still, I was observing it as a, you know, like a third party, you know, it was, it was interesting to me, but, but, yeah, I think, I, I spent a little time to understand what, because, you know, the newspaper coverage, like, usual, was terrible about it, they didn't explain what was going on, so I spent a little time to understand that, yes, there was a problem, but, no, it had nothing to do with blockchain, it was, uh, it was, oh, there's...

**[00:28] SPEAKER_05:** I think you're right, so the run-up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14, it looks like, or, okay, so it officially shuttered February 2014. Though, and the big, the $1200 that I remember was like November 2013, it looks like. When did the hack happen? December. Oh, I think, right here, okay, yeah, right there, yeah.

**[00:31] SPEAKER_00:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure. Because I think about Mt. Gox, and, oh, what was, I'm blanking right now, what was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used, Silk Road. Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's, those were kind of intertwined in those early days, right, so I remember, like, even going on to Silk Road, just to check what it was about, and I was like, shocked with what I saw listed there, like, you know, lots of illicit stuff was listed there, you know.

**[00:35] SPEAKER_05:** That's, wow, you know, I think I never did that, I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road, um, just heard about it, at, like, I had a Mt. Gox account, um, and some others, there was a period where, like, Dwala was doing crypto stuff, um, and then I think they stopped, um, and I believe they're still around, as, like, a payment API company, um, but, um, yeah, because I definitely used them, and some others.

**[00:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests, and the Mt. Gox hacks, came relatively within the same time frame of each other, and that was like the sort of, like, you know, as we've, as you mentioned, like, the first kind of iteration of, like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now, and then it just keeps coming back, right?

**[00:41] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it sure does. There's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. If there's fraud, and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud, and it happens in traditional banking, it might mean that we need a little more regulation, or something, but that was a bad person. So it's always like, uh, much more tied into, you know, that the price of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens, but you don't see, like, e crashing, because, like, somebody commits fraud somewhere, I mean, I guess, fraud's big enough, but, yeah, I agreed, um, just a segue, yeah.

**[00:45] SPEAKER_05:** Segueing quickly, can you guys go into how you met, because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole, how we all, yeah, Jim, do, do I, do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[00:47] SPEAKER_02:** Uh, I'll start, and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually, so I had, uh, uh, back in the nineties, I was in academia, and, uh, in the aughts, I was, uh, in the startup world, and I'd done a couple startups, and I was ending one of my startups, and I had, uh, two sons who were in the, our local school in California, was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence, both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy, right now, and let's take this to its extension, let's go to China, and actually put them in a school there, so I called around some various friends, and, uh, one of the friends I called was a VC, who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing, and, uh, he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys, so, in fact, let me pass it over to you, right now, and you can...

**[00:51] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah, and so the VC, you know, who we're still friends with, like, he kind of came up to me, and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO, and he says he wants to come to China, I'm not sure how serious he is, so don't put all your eggs in this basket, but then we started, talking, that summer, and you weren't, like, traveling in the country, so you were, like, in a different place, every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless, at the time, is that we got in a car, and started just driving around the country, and, and, I remember, like, know, like, we were kind of talking over the summer, and I was like, seeing how serious you were about coming, and, at one point, you said, okay, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come, and take the job, to Beijing, and I went to the school, that my kids went to, which, and said, like, you know, can you make space for, um, you know, two foreign kids, this international program, they said, yes, if you can, but the kids have to be here, the first day of school, and, first day of school, was two weeks from that conversation, so I called Jim up, and said, look, I can do it, you know, I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here, on this day, and, to my shock, he actually said, yes, and he, like, talked up his house, and, like, everything, in the house, in, like, I think we had, 12 days, to be in school, and we probably, had to have the house back, within, like, less than a week, so that was a crazy week, but, uh, Victor was a, uh, great help, in, like, we were going to a country, we'd never been to before, didn't know much about, Victor had, also, uh, moved to Asia, a few years earlier, and so he had, sort of, scoped out, everything, and he knew, he knew, where the good schools were, he knew, where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out, tremendously, so, yeah, it was a great experience, it was an exciting time, to be in China, was, right, around the first Olympics, you know.

**[00:56] SPEAKER_00:** Like, it was, right, around, that, the Beijing Olympics, and, so, it's a, really exciting time, but, yeah, you wound up, staying, for, about, 18 months, right, in total, and, um, a little less, but, yeah, it was, it was, over a year, yeah, and, then, we just kept in touch, from there, like, we loved working together, yeah, what year, did you arrive, um, what was this, rough time, yeah, who are you asking, because it was different, uh, you, Jim?

**[01:00] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, 2011, 2011, summer, we're driving, all over the country, 2011, September, August, I can't remember, we were, we were, in Beijing, gotcha, very cool, and, so, then, you're, back, end of 2012, or early 2013, something like that, yeah, we were, back, in the country, in 2013, gotcha, but, like, January.

**[01:04] SPEAKER_05:** Let me, I'll, segue, I'll, try to keep it, slightly chronological, to keep everything, in my mind, here, consistent, so, I was, in grad school, at Berkeley, between 2012, and, really, 2015, I got to start working on Ethereum, kind of, purely, by accident, maybe, not, purely, by accident, but, basically, the, I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm going to say, spring 2014, or, maybe, May, April, or May, 2014, so, for those, who are not aware, of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam, is, like, one of the last things, you need to do, before you just do the research, and produce the thesis, so, sometimes, it's a coursework requirement, sometimes, you need to, you know, translate a work, from, like, an academic work, from one language, to another, to show proficiency, I think, most of them, have dropped those requirements, at this point, and, so, you know, it's a whole bunch, of study, intense prep, at Berkeley, it's a three-hour oral exam, with a couple of people, from your department, and one, from an external department, and, then, they give you a pass, or not, I got a pass, thankfully, it was a, I don't know, that it was, it was, everyone feels bad, after their qualifying exam, except the people, who are really good, right, like, and, you know, so, while I passed it, I, it was, like, you know, didn't feel great, the, at least, the rest of that day, um, when did you find out, the result, like, immediately, oh, you do, okay, you put, you, in the hall, and, they tell you.

**[01:10] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, okay, that's good, so, you're, just, like, very nervous, I don't know, what it was, like, for you, but, for me, it was, just, like, three guys, I knew, and, I was nervous, too, but, it wasn't, like, they had to go, and, like, uh, you know, like, calculate numbers, or something, they just kind of, come out, and, they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly, it was, no, it was, like, that, right, yeah, it's, it's, subjective, in a sense, but, you've got, several, of the world's, foremost experts, in some subjects, so, they're able to assess, whether you understand it enough, or not, to proceed, with research, the qualifying exam, led to, I needed a short break, from math, I was, in mathematical physics, and, I had, almost, taken a job, working, for a data science company, that was taking, I think, something, having to do, with Nielsen TV ratings, and doing something, with the data, and, maybe, selling it back, to networks, I think, it seemed, like, an okay thing, I also wanted to go back, to New York, for the summer, I'm from New York, and, you know, as with many New Yorkers, it took some time, to adapt, to California culture, and, I didn't, fully, do it, I still, you know, I'm prone, sometimes, to bash, the Bay Area, but, I still, kind of, like it, there, I'm sitting, there, right now, by the way, yes, yes, Jim's, there, I'm, in the state, of New York, at the moment, but, but, yeah, but, you know, I need, a little break, basically, and, it ended up, being possible, to work, on the Ethereum project, um, so, somehow, um, my, you know, I guess, I'll go into this, somehow, uh, my dad, Joe Lubin, got attached, to the project, basically, because he was always, he was tracking Bitcoin, blockchain, for a long time, um, he had a CS background, plus, the financial background, and, ran a hedge fund, for a number of years, and, so, it's just, kind of, always, watching, technological innovations, in financial services, and, I guess, always, had a little bit, of the, you know, blockchain, philosophical character, in that, you know, let's say, pro, pro, freedom, little, little bit, of a libertarian streak, kind of thing, and, I believe, he happened to, just, be visiting, our families, he's from Toronto, a lot of blockchain people, in Toronto, for one reason, or another, and, he went, I believe, to, it might have been, a Bitcoin meetup, at that time, or, it might have been, the first Ethereum meetup, but, this would have been, January, February, 2014, I believe, um, and, Vitalik, was speaking, there, and, um, you know, like, everyone, around, that time, where, um, did you see Vitalik, speak, about something, um, you got, really excited, right, and, so, he, actually, got, ready, to start, helping, out, the project, right away, he, actually, thought, for a time, that he might be, a software developer, for the project, um, and, you know, it didn't turn out, that way, we can go into it, a little bit, later, but, he started working, on it, again, let's take, February, March, um, 2014, and, so, he just sent me, the white paper, like, right after, maybe, right before, my qualifying exam, I got a chance, to read it, um, and, it was, pretty cool, and interesting, and new, and, that was, sort of, the first time, I grasped, the potential, of the technology, and, it caused me, to go back, and read, the Bitcoin white paper, etc., and, it was, sort of, exciting enough, to work, on, for that summer, basically, so, that's, how I got into it, um, and, subsequently, um, you know, Jim, Jim, alluded to this, earlier, I started to work, with the project, and, um, reached out, to Steve Shu, a great, great friend, of ours, um, kind of, uh, I don't know, not quite, famously, brilliant, definitely, brilliant, somewhat, famous, um, uh, super cool guy, uh, and, I've been, a long-time reader, of Steve's blog, he's one of the, um, few, really excellent, uh, kind of, general communicators, who's a super technical guy, but, most people, who are really technical, in communication, have a hard time, I don't, distilling it, for, at least, kind of, a mass market audience, uh, but, Steve, is, actually, good, at that, uh, but, with nuanced coverage, of technical topics, so, anyway, um, caught up, with Steve, um, and, that takes us, to, um, Steve, forwarding, on, the Ethereum white paper, to Jim, and, I believe, the first time, I spoke, to Steve, I was, in New York, but, was, just, about, to go back, to the Bay Area, so, that takes us, to, maybe, June, July, 2014, and, maybe, I came back, in August, or something, like that, and, it turned out, that Jim, was, there, in Hayward, and, we got, to meet up.

**[01:20] SPEAKER_02:** What do you, really think, August, 2014, September, something like that, oh, it was, around, then, because, uh, um, also, ironically, I was driving, across the country, that summer, too, and, uh, it was, right, after, I came back, that's, all, your big life changes, are related, to some cross-country, you do, a soul searching, you do, a literal search, well, see, I was, in Montana, and, then, I was, back, in the Bay Area, and, then, we talked.

**[01:24] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, okay, that's cool, how was Montana, by the way, well, maybe, we shouldn't go, yeah, um, Montana, oddly, crypto-friendly, yeah, yeah, makes sense, big sky country, right, yeah, that's, my country, um, okay, so, let me see, here, I want to, um, I have a couple, other, 2014, anecdotes, that, uh, you guys, may not even know, that much, about, but, maybe, we should jump ahead, to 2015, and, go back, so, just, before, we go, past, 2014, so, I moved, back, from China, um, in 2014, and, so, you know, me, and Jim, were talking, about, like, oh, now, that we were, I was back, what kind of project, could we do, together, so, while, you had started, that conversation, me, and Jim, were, like, thinking, about, okay, you know, like, maybe, we could work, on a startup, together, and, at some point, you forwarded, me, the paper, as well, so, like, I think, once, so, that's, kind of, how I got into it, as well, um.

**[01:30] SPEAKER_05:** I want to give, yeah, I don't want to speak, the whole time, but, I have some info, here, that, I forget, if I told, you guys, at length, okay, go for it, in 2014, so, basically, I did work, on the Ethereum project, through, a bunch, of 2014, projects, as far, as tech projects go, it was, much more global, a little more European, but, you had Canada, you had, a bunch, of people, in Zug, Switzerland, a little bit, in Israel, in the early days, we worked, out of an office, my dad, and I, and, Guy, named Stephen Narayoff, who is now, kind of, famous, actually, if you Google, the name, it's, definitely, an interesting, and, colorful story, that, I'll go into, a little bit, later, and, a guy, named Jonathan, whose last name, I couldn't find, when I was writing, this down, but, Jonathan's, a good guy, and, I don't know, if they parted ways, at some point, or, how that, all happened, so, we're working, in this office, in Times Square, and, you know, really, trying, to find, kind of, different ways, to advance, the project, meeting, with lots, of people, um, so, you know, that's, when I met, um, Steve Shu, who introduced me, to Jim, basically, just, kind of, calling, up, whoever, might be interested, but, part of the plans, that, the Ethereum, uh, folks, had, was, you know, they acknowledged, that, um, there would be, a need, for kind of, ongoing, pure research, and, then, in addition, to more, like, focused, R&D, to build, the network, out, and, so, Vitalik, at some point, pended, article, about, you know, 10 hard problems, in cryptocurrency, or, or something, of that nature, in which, and, I think, it was, if we went back, now, it would look, both, very insightful, and, a little bit, dated, I'm sure, some of them, have been solved, and, some of them, may not need, to be solved, because, something, else, emerged, basically, foresaw, that, they, the, need, for, you know, uh, privacy, above, and beyond, pseudonymity, for instance, yeah, or, and, you know, many things, with that, transition, from proof of work, to, mistake, or, just, like, energy-efficient blockchains, which people, were talking, about, at that time, but, um, my position, in academia, at that time, seemed, to be helpful, as the blockchain people, were just, so different, from the academia people, despite, both, of them, being, really smart groups, of people, blockchain people, were not worried, about doing things, through, the proper channels, and approval, and writing, it up, the right way, and, all that sort of thing, whereas, something, about academia, makes you fearful, of being wrong, um, because, you, you're wrong, enough, in public, there, are, kind of, consequences, for it, uh, and, the, kind of, I would say, the tech attitude, in general, is, like, getting, something, out there, you know, get it to work, basically, but, get it out, and, then, iterate, um, and, blockchain people, had, that, you know, in a, extreme, and, I would say, also, Ethereum, was, much more, like that, than the Bitcoin culture, the Bitcoin culture, was, like, a bunch, of practicing, but, academic cryptographers, who, never, wanted, to change, anything, um, and, the Ethereum people, were, more, like, have, like, the software, and, computer science, engineering, attitude, of, like, well, let's get out there, let's, let's, tinker, with it, let's, kind of, see, what happens, and, it looks, good, arguments, for both, especially, when, you're talking, about, like, a system, that, custody's, whatnot, custody's, but, you know, that, records, a lot, of high-value ownership interests, and, allows them, to be transferred, um, but, all that, is to say, it was useful, for the Ethereum Foundation, to have someone, who was, actively, in academia, to, kind of, work with, and, coordinate, everything, so, we agreed, to work, on a body, called, the Cryptocurrency Research Group, and, that was composed, of, sort of, myself, Vitalik, and, our friend, Aaron Wright, he's, since, gone on, to, a number, of Web3 projects, but, at the time, was, practicing, uh, attorney, uh, but, also, a professor, at Cardozo Law School, um, and, he came, to that, Times Square office, which, was, you know, not, the greatest, of offices, I would say, and, just, sort of, really, leaned in, on, um, Ethereum, and, kind of, helped, structure, everything, uh, so, that, you know, it would be, kind of, the most robust, um, not, just, technology, but, they, actually, did, kind of, a, quite, good job, in figuring, out, uh, how to set things up, uh, that, other projects, since, did, you know, certainly, did not do, as good, a job, I'll say, so, you know, it was, it was, funny times, um, and, in 2014, I also, got to go, to Zug, for those, who don't know, the Ethereum Foundation, was, one of the first, to be headquartered, in Switzerland, and, it was, kind of, it's become, a very popular choice, for crypto foundations, uh, because, I guess, the Ethereum Foundation, sort of, blazed, a path, uh, and, okay, funny thing, about Switzerland, is, that, the, kind of, local authorities, also, just, seem, like, business people, like, they want, to land, the future, tax revenue, and, employment, and, so, you can, kind of, James Heiting, once, Switzerland, is, split, into, some number, of cantons, which, are, like, states, a little smaller, than US states, of course, and, so, you can, kind of, go, from canton, to canton, and, try, to get, the best offer, and, offer, really, means, like, you know, tax treatment, any kind of grants, or, just, like, and, helping, get, fast answers, around, legal questions, you know, one, of the tough things, about the United States, is, that, sometimes, you don't know, what's allowed, and, the