**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** All righty, so we're on. Thanks. So my name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad. Of Bitcoin and I distinctly remember it being three dollars down from a recent peak of 14 or 15 dollars. I thought it was interesting and you know looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. You know, I'd have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[00:02] SPEAKER_01:** That said, let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested in fact like I I don't know I was like I came from an academic background, so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it, but but I was like a little bit too above all that like oh that's like a money thing I'm not interested in that money world. So, uh, really no like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who was a uh an old friend of mine, and that uh Kieran had been following his blog, and and uh Steve called me up and he's like uh this guy Kieran just called me up and you you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so, uh, at first I was like uh yeah, you know I'm not interested in all this this uh uh fake money thing, and I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

**[00:04] SPEAKER_04:** Uh, and uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So, well, I don't know, let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah, let's uh, Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological, so I you know I was 2010, 2011, sounds like the same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two, right to that era. Um, and we'll talk in more detail, uh, but let's let's hold on it for just a moment, uh Vic, do you want to take it?

**[00:06] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think I became aware of it um around the same time as you. I was I was um you know doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I I felt really disconnected from North America, so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts, and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWIT that was like all technical podcasts, and one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast Security Now, which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things, and he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin, and I was like you know really really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle, like, and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it, didn't get any Bitcoin, or if I did, uh, I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office, and I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can transfer money, and it's basically free internet magic money, and I was like, I I honestly was kind of repelled by that, like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

**[00:08] SPEAKER_04:** I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested, I guess. Um, you know, I think um you know from the East Coast, um, the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like...

**[00:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like... I guess I didn't hate it, I just felt I was too good for it, but I think I found the like...

**[00:12] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about, so I was fascinated, the technical aspect, like I said, like you know, and it got me to read the white paper, and even like download the software, but I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were like kind of fanatical, like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off, I would say.

**[00:14] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored Crypto. Some of them weighed in on it, but yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against, not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something, it's just like... the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective, and I guess the hardest working horsepower, very few of those people got interested um and in uh you know crypto blockchain, a few cryptographers certainly did, and probably actually more established ones, um, as far as uh you know compared to younger ones, like folks like Dan Bonet, etc., but yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess.

**[00:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was sketchy, because most of the use cases that like I thought the technology was fascinating, but whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy, so I would always ask like what's the use case, why would you use it, and people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws, like the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff, and I was like, is that legal? Like, no one would, you know, mention anything afterwards, basically.

**[00:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it sure does, um, okay, there's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover um problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional uh world, like if there's if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place, and if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that like, we need a little more regulation or something, but that that was a bad person, so it's always like, uh, much more tied into, you know, that the price of of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens, but you don't see like e crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere, I mean, I guess fraud's big enough, but yeah, I agreed, um, just a segue, yeah.

**[00:20] SPEAKER_04:** John Coleman, SIG way, and quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**[00:22] SPEAKER_00:** Do I do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[00:24] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I'll start, and and I'll pass it over. I uh, actually, so I had uh uh back in the 90s, I was in academia, and in the aughts, I was in the startup world, and I'd done a couple startups, and I was ending one of my startups, and I had uh two sons who were in the our local school in California, was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs, and we said, hey, let's just be crazy, right now, and let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China, and actually put them in a school there, so I called around some various friends, and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing, and he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys, so in fact, let me pass it over to you right now, and you can...

**[00:26] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah, and and so the VC um you know who we're still friends with, her, G, like he kind of came up to me, and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO, and he says he wants to come to China, I'm not sure how serious he is, so you know, don't put all your eggs in this basket, but then we started talking that summer, and you weren't like traveling in the country, so you were like in a different place every another advantage of us both uh uh being jobless at the time is that we got in a car, and started just driving around the country, and and I remember like, you know, like we were kind of talking over the summer, and I was like, seeing how serious you were about coming, and at one point, you said, OK, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come, and take the job to Beijing, and I went to the school that my kids went to, which, and said, like, you know, can you make space for um you know two foreign kids, this international program, they said yes, if you can, but the kids have to be here the first day of school, and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation, so I called him up, and said, look, I can do it, I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here on this day, and to my shock, he actually said yes, and he like talked to his house, and like everything in the house, in like, I think we had 12 days to be in school, and we probably had to have the house back within like, I don't know, less than a week, so that was a crazy week, but but uh, Victor was a great help in like, we were going to a country we'd never been to before, didn't know much about, Victor had also uh moved to Asia a few years earlier, and so he had sort of scoped out everything, and he knew, he knew where the good schools were, he knew where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out just tremendously, so yeah, it was a great experience, it was an exciting time to be in China, was right around the first Olympics, you know, like it was right around that, the Beijing Olympics, and so it's a really exciting time, but yeah, you wound up staying for about 18 months, right, in total, and um, a little less, but yeah, it was, it was over a year, yeah, and then we just kept in touch from there, like we loved working together, yeah, it was great, what year did you arrive, um, what was this rough time, yeah, who are you asking, because it was different, uh, you, Jim?

**[00:28] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, 2011, 2011 summer, we're driving all over the country, 2011, September, August, I can't remember, we were, we were in Beijing, gotcha, gotcha, very cool, and so then you're back, end of 2012, or early 2013, something like that, yeah, we were back in the country in 2013, but like January.

**[00:30] SPEAKER_04:** Let me, I'll segue, I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically, the... I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm going to say spring 2014, or, you know, maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who have not aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes it's a coursework requirement, sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from like an academic work from one language to another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point, and so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study, tense prep at Berkeley, it's a three-hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department, and then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass, thankfully, it was a, I don't know that it was, it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam, except the people who are really good, right, like, and you know, so while I passed it, I, it was like, you know, didn't feel great, the, at least the rest of that day, um, but when do you find out the result, like immediately, oh, you do, okay, you're just like very nervous, I don't know what it was like for you, but for me, it was just like three guys I knew, and I was nervous too, but it wasn't like they had to go and like, uh, you know, like calculate numbers or something, they just kind of come out, and they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly, it was no, it was like that, right, yeah, it's, it's a, it's an oral, it's...

**[00:32] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, okay, that's good, so you're just like very nervous, I don't know what it was like for you, but for me, it was just like, uh, three guys I knew, and I was nervous too, but it wasn't like they had to go and like, uh, you know, like calculate numbers or something, they just kind of come out, and they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly, it was no, it was like that, right, yeah, it's, it's a, it's a...

**[00:34] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, gotcha, perfect, putting us in the client's arms race, if you will, that was the one I was trying to make, I want to talk real quickly about some other things from that summer, you guys participated in the crowd sale, did you not? That's why you bought the Bitcoin the first time, or did you buy it first? Yeah, got a token amount, gotcha, so the, from our, our side, um, we ended up, uh, mostly my dad, but obviously with help from the theory people, so they, they coded up a site to do the crowd sale, so Ethereum was one of the first, maybe the first, um, to pioneer basically, you know, a, um, kind of pre-funding event, if you will, where they sold the token Ether in exchange for Bitcoin to the users.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_00:** Basically an ICO, right?

**[00:38] SPEAKER_04:** It was essentially an ICO, there was no name for it then, but I remember the price varied a little bit over the course of the sale, but it was like one Bitcoin to 2,000 Ether, which meant you made pretty good returns if you participated in the crowd sale and sold at the right time, or still holding, but the way it worked, it was complicated, so Ethereum itself made ICOs pretty easy, the, for Bitcoin, it was basically, I think, the Ethereum foundation had, um, to set up an address for you to send the Bitcoin to, and so that they could mint the, um, the Ether, and the Genesis block for you, and you also, but the, the foundation, like, you know, rightfully, in decentralization terms, did not want to just hold everybody's keys, right, so you had to sort of generate your own keys, and the website did this, and download them, there's these huge warnings, like, you must download this file, if you lose this file, you will lose access to your funds, and so, some of the, the Ethereum folks coded it up, and, um, there was some, I think, they generated unique addresses for each funding event, for traceability sake, I'm not quite sure if they did that, maybe there was just one, exodus address, or all that sort of thing, but, actually, no, there must have been just one, so we were a little bit the help desk, so sometimes people would try to find it, wouldn't work, um, try to, try to purchase Ether, um, and there were interesting goings-on, there were, like, a fake Twitter account that emerged, um, with the, e and the, u, in Ethereum, transposed, so it looked just like Ethereum, and they had assembled, um, you know, 25,000 followers, or something, no doubt bots, that, whatever, hacker-controlled, or maybe you pay for those, and they were offering special deals on Ether, so it went live, so this is something that's been going on for 10 years now, um, I, you know, even I've heard new crypto projects, um, you know, when they start to get popular, people start selling their tokens over Twitter, even before those tokens are issued, now, so they've gotten more sophisticated, uh, but, yeah, so I, I remember reaching out to a friend of mine, who was working at Twitter, at the time, and helping, like, escalate the ticket, that, you know, uh, because the, like, a big theft could occur, and I believe did not, Jonathan configured one of the block explorers, maybe it was blockchain.info, I can't remember, so that every time money hit a certain address, a noise would play, so we're in this room, and we were like, we're in the room, all day, because it's like, we're in, like, help desk mode, and we just hear the things come in, and there was a schedule, over, like, 14 days, you could fund, at no monetary consequence, and then the price started to go up, over the course of, I believe, a 42-day sale, all in all, I think, 7,000 unique purchasers, something like that, but it was quite an affair, it's definitely more streamlined now, and to clear the way to do all of this, they got a legal opinion, that they're selling software, in essence, to people, from, you know, a reputable law firm, and, you know, some of that, all that made it to the terms and conditions, it was a big rush to get it all done, um, and then, so I think, that raised, didn't even remember, it's like, 22 million bucks, at the time, yeah, I thought it was, well, it was, in Bitcoin, so I think, it was like, 20 million, well, I remember vaguely, that, at the time, of the sale, it was, around, or over, 20 million, so...

**[00:40] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I believe that's right, it's either one, or two, ever, at that time, and it's since been surpassed, by tons, many of which, yeah, exactly, but, yeah, like, I think, at the time, it was, around, or over, 20 million, so...

**[00:42] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, that's, that's right, and, interestingly, in the course of the sale, and, maybe, a little bit, having to do with the sale, um, the price of Bitcoin starts to go down, so I believe, it's 600, or so, at the start of the sale, and it's just, it's kind of, we notice, it dropping, um, kind of, continually, I guess, uh, and, maybe, at the end of it, it's like, high fours, low fives, and you know, it's, foreshadowing, it'll, kind of, go on to drop, from there, um, but, yeah, okay, so, did you guys, uh, remember, the experience, of, the, the, funding site, and all that sort of thing, I think, we were not speaking about that specific detail, at that time, uh, I remember, the site, I remember, a clock, on it, but I don't remember, too much else, about it, yeah, okay, so, the crowd sale, is, like, not a huge part of your memory, it's a huge part of mine, I guess, because we were, like, dealing with all of the issues, but, uh, Vicky, were you, uh, you were just getting, kind of, interested, at this time, right, like, well, yeah, exactly, like...

**[00:44] SPEAKER_00:** Well, Jim, like, Jim, basically, when he, he was going to buy, this Bitcoin, he was like, oh, I'm going to buy, this Bitcoin, and, to participate, in the crowd sale, do you want to participate, and I was like, um, you know, I'm gonna feel like a real idiot, if I don't do anything, so I just, it was, just, some, yeah, we were just going to say, like, some nominal amount, that we did, and, you know, of course, it's probably turned into, the best investment, I ever made, but, like, yeah, it was, we had pulled, our resources together, because it was, so hard, it wasn't easy, right, you're like, generating, this, yeah, exactly, seed phrases, you know, this, that, and the other, it just, was, mind-boggling, really complicated, you know, so, um, and, but, like, I think, the biggest problem, with, the step, was, getting, actual Bitcoin, like, you know, I mean, Jim was, in the Bay Area, right, the heart of IT, and all, attack things, you know, I was, in Vancouver, and it wasn't, Vancouver, was, an early Bitcoin, adopter, but it was, still, really, really hard...

**[00:46] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, yeah, um, that's, very interesting, um, yes, in any case, uh, the, okay, so, the sale, happens, and, now, the project, is funded, and it's, really funded, you know, um, I suppose, you know, there are, plenty of, mega VC investments, at that time, but it's, you know, the bubble years, in, 2020, 2021, were not heard of, at this time, like, you know, Series A investments, were, still, between, like, three, and, 10 million bucks, salaries, probably, a little lower, than they are now, back then, this was, a lot of money, and, so, the Ethereum folks, then, kind of, It was, very technically driven, they kicked, in, all of their technical dreams, so to speak, so Jim's point, about, the, really big claims, they, really were, in a sense, trying to create, a whole new internet, a couple examples, so, not just, the proliferation, of clients, they're going to make, a browser, the Mist browser, they're going to make, a peer-to-peer messaging system, called Whisper, they're going to make, a decentralized file storage system, they chose, to make, a virtual machine, like Java, and, we always thought, that JavaScript, was, the better analogy, because it kind of won, on the Internet, has anyone, ever seen, an applet, in the last, 15, 20 years, um, but, they made, multiple languages, that would compile, to the EVM, um, and, you know, there's, some benefits, to that, it's, definitely, evolved, over time, uh, I don't know, do you, have, a more specific memory, of, like, they were making, a lot of stuff, but it was, can you, get into, the experience, of trying, to make, something compatible, with what they were doing, at that time...

**[00:48] SPEAKER_01:** Well, once I found, the yellow paper, it wasn't, as difficult, because that centered me, around, the blockchain part, of it, but it was, that earlier marketing material, that was, very confusing, to me, because they would talk, about, you know, you would have, these videos, like, what is Ethereum, and then it would just go off, into all these things, like, you mentioned, a browser, or a messaging system, uh, and, I think, there was, even, some talk, in there, about replacing, TCP IP, or something, I, I, can't remember, some of these things, actually, came into being, some of these didn't, I, I, think, my learning process, was, first realizing, what blockchain was, but then digging, a little deeper, and being confused, that I didn't, really know, what was happening, because I thought, this was, going to be, a blockchain project, and then they were talking, about writing browsers, and, then, and, then realizing, when I saw, the yellow paper, that, yeah, this is, the core, of what Ethereum is, that other stuff, is, sort of, like pipe dream stuff, that may, or may not, come to being, but, uh, but, yeah, so, that's, how it went, and, then, once I got, the, the concrete, uh, um, uh, test net, uh, work, that, then I understood, what was going on, so, gotcha, yeah, yeah, it was, um...

**[00:50] SPEAKER_02:** It was wild.

**[00:52] SPEAKER_04:** And, I'm struggling, to remember, the timing, on all of this, actually, no, I'll go, to CryptoEconomicon, first, so, now we're going, into January, or so, 2015, so, a couple times, so Vitalik visits, the Bay Area, a bunch, did you remember, we went, to a couple meetups, with Vitalik, did we not?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[00:56] SPEAKER_04:** Um, I think, it was, super casual, um, we, had, started, to work, on, the Haskell client, and, I, was, never, I, was, I, learned, in school, enough, how to program software, but, was, not, a, you know, professional quality software developer, and, I, kind of, learned, enough, of that, quickly, on the job, with Jim, so, as Jim alluded to, we, would meet, up, at my Berkeley apartment, I think, first, we, were meeting, at Tom Preston-Werner's, on Telegraph, just north of Ashby, yeah, just on the right, by the Oakland border, and, then, later, we met, a different, very close, to campus, yeah, like, bankrupt, and Telegraph, Tom Preston-Werner, and, you know, so, it, was, an open source project, Tom Preston-Werner, and, there, was, um, because, lots of people, were making, their own versions, of it, there, was, sort of, a, like, I, said, a fight, for the definition, of it, which, is, in the end, settled, by the yellow paper, but, um, you know, I, can, you, talk, a little bit, about, that time, where, we're, just, coding, really hard, um, uh, you, and, I, and, just, like, trying, to keep pace, with, the, spec, um, Etc...

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Well, yeah, I mean, the, it, was, fun, and, frustrating, at the same time, because, um, I, think, that, the Ethereum Foundation, was, trying, pretty hard, to put, the specs, out, there, but, still, things, were changing, faster, than, like, the yellow paper, could, keep up, to, things, so, I, would, just, uh, like, have, something, to the point, where, it, was, connecting, and, communicating, and, running, running, the virtual machine, and, then, like, next day, I'd, come, in, and, completely, wouldn't, work, and, maybe, a few weeks, later, like, the yellow paper, would, be updated, to explain, why, but, in the meantime, the only way, that, I, could, sort of, figure, stuff, out, was, to, just, go, and, get, one, of the other clients, and, read, how, in the world, are, they, getting, this, thing, to work, and, there, was, one point, when, they, added, encryption, to, the, connect, to, the, connection, that, essentially, changed, the protocol, completely, I, connected, nothing, was, working, anymore, I, had, to, like, just, dig, in, and...

**[01:00] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, that, was, actually, it, had, repressed, that, memory, um, the, so, mostly, Jim, figured, all, this, out, but, they, so, the Ethereum people, put, um, just, for, the technical audience, kind, of, the equivalent, of, something, like SSL, into, the product, um, so, in the, yeah, yeah, they, put, end-to-end, encryption, in, and, there's, a complex, like, handshake, and, then, like, a session, was, created, between peers, and, yada, yada, and, so, it's, really hard, to implement, stuff, like, that, because, all, of the, mess, you're, getting, back, is, encrypted, so, you, have, to, get, it, totally, perfect, and, then, it, makes, sense, if, you, don't, get, it, perfect, nothing, makes, sense, and, you, don't, know, why, um, I, was, just, irrationally, about, it, like, I, was, like, I, didn't, care, whether, this, was, good, or, bad, for, the...

**[01:02] SPEAKER_01:** For the product, but, I, was, actually, genuinely, confused, too, because, you, have, like, this, open, network, that, anyone, can, connect, to, but, you, want, to, encrypt, everything, that's, going, on, it, took, me, a, while, to, figure, out, why, that, actually, happened, I, was, asking, around, uh, in, various, like, uh, uh, dm, services, I, don't, remember, where, I, used, to, go, and, talk, to, people, uh, and, I, found, giant, Skype, threads, I, remember, at, the time...

**[01:04] SPEAKER_04:** There, was, like, huge, like, we, this, was, like, I, think, we, weren't, even, using, Slack, yet, it, was, like, there, was, tons, of, Skype, Slack, was, just, getting, popular, at, this, time, theorem, had, a, Slack, um, uh, consensus, out, of, Slack, we, can, get, another, consensus, story, a, little, bit, um, and, the, but, yeah, we, had, a, Skype, thread, for, some, reason, you, know, like, just, because, it, was, the, thing, that, people, used, for, a, threaded, discussion, group, WhatsApp, maybe, wasn't, popular, or, not, for, this, purpose, you, know, so...

**[01:06] SPEAKER_01:** I, dug, around, a, while, to, figure, out, why, in, the, world, encryption, had, even, been, added, to, this, and, I, kept, getting, sort, of, like, oh, we, want, to, make, sure, that, this, information, is, private, and, I, was, like, it, doesn't, make, sense, I, can, connect, anywhere, and, see, this, stuff, finally, found, one, of, the, people, that, had, implemented, it, and, the, idea, wasn't, crazy, it, had, nothing, to, do, with, encryption, but, their, thought, process, is, that, it, was, more, about, identity, once, you, join, you, wanted, to, have, essentially, like, a, cert, that, verified, that, you, are, who, you, say, you, are, and, they, wanted, that, there, for, the, various, extensions, that, they, were, putting, in, and, so, okay, that, wasn't, crazy, it, was, very, annoying, to, me, to, spend, a, week, of, my, life,