**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** What are you using? I use Restream. We tried to use something, and it stream on Twitter, I think YouTube, and and LinkedIn at the same time. So we're using StreamYard

**[00:12] SPEAKER_02:** to we're using StreamYard, and I'm just double checking. Screwing around with different tools trying to find anything that's Everything seems a bit

**[00:24] SPEAKER_04:** No. I'm perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Then I'll I'll share the one. I don't know if you've tried this one, but this one looks pretty pretty cool, pretty good. Because you're thinking that there must be good software for this. Right? It's such a common need.

**[00:38] SPEAKER_02:** Like, is there just an answer that just works?

**[00:41] SPEAKER_04:** But the thing is, like, those platform, they're not built with interoperability in mind. Do you They they don't like it. They wanna track you in? Yeah. Exactly. And so that's that's that's that's against our vision. You know? On x, there isn't even a means to download the bloody audio. Yeah. It's Why would you wanna download it? You know, like, that's something you know, I guess the the next step in the maybe, like You wanna use it somewhere else? Five ten years. Somebody else? Be able to own your data, you know, in all those platforms. Even own a query or just access. You know? Something I love about Google is, like, I can go I can activate, you know, like, the the tracking, you know, but at least I can go and say, what did what did you do that week? I went in front of that restaurant or that store. It was pretty nice. And I can go and see and check. I have access to that. It can be helpful. But most of those things, they have, like, thousands of datas, but, like, they don't even share it with you. Yeah. Exactly. That's right. And I find it quite

**[01:24] SPEAKER_03:** quite well.

**[01:26] SPEAKER_01:** Five zero one. Oh, yeah. We are live. So we are live. No. No. No. I'm ready. No. But that was a good cold intro. Right? So we have a very special guest today, but a special format because all of us for the for change our life in real life In the same room. In the same room. Amazing. And you are a special guest,

**[01:45] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Sure. So, yeah, we have here today with us, Meslam Yes. Exactly. Meslam, who is the executive director of the the EEA, the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, which all of us at this table have had a had a hand in a part in over the years. Yeah. Healthy run. Yes. Exactly.

**[02:01] SPEAKER_03:** Right. So yeah. Is it, like, it's eight years now? Since 2017. Yep. February 2017 was the last date on the twenty eighth. There was prework

**[02:12] SPEAKER_02:** solidly before. At least three months, they didn't work. There were meetings I was part of in December and January. There would I mean, that that those were the first big meetings Right. You know, with whatever thirty, forty people, crazy amounts. But, yeah, like, it really started probably at DEFCON two, really. It did. It did. Those were the discussions. So that was Shanghai, October.

**[02:35] SPEAKER_03:** But there was the kickoff meeting at the JPMorgan office, which was pretty big. And even for they were the closed door meetings at Microsoft.

**[02:46] SPEAKER_02:** Right. So that that was public launch this February. It was February. But but December, there was a there was an internal, like, one, and then JPMorgan was in January 2017. But but, yeah, like, a lot of those initial contacts have happened at DevCon two Yep. In October the previous year. Well, in in the DevCon two Oh, yes. Yeah. So, like, basically

**[03:08] SPEAKER_01:** basically, there was a lot of conversations there about figuring out how to bring on enterprises too. And there were a lot of interested parties. And, yeah, like, the the group of people, which was I think about six people that were interested, met at, like, a Starbucks just off-site. And, you know, that was sort of the idea formation thing about the

**[03:28] SPEAKER_02:** And then Matt spoke of new co held a little little bar side event as well, which we have some technical issues. Space. Yeah. 5AM.

**[03:39] SPEAKER_04:** That's not Oh, okay. Hold on one second. Just gonna push. James is gonna tell everybody.

**[03:46] SPEAKER_02:** We have a technical issue, everybody.

**[03:51] SPEAKER_01:** I can I was I will fix that? Oh, did I? I messed up the Twitter. You did a bad one. Yeah. I did a bad one. So everyone please join us on YouTube. Spaces at 5AM.

**[04:02] SPEAKER_02:** Right. Yes. Half by 12AM. Matt spoke held held a little event at one of the bars upstairs, which I went to when there were various others there, if you went to that as well.

**[04:15] SPEAKER_01:** I I didn't go to that one. So I think the main thing was that yeah. So I think the main thing I'm I'm gonna try and fix this right now on Twitter. Live technical support, see if I can resolve it right now. If not

**[04:28] SPEAKER_04:** I I am.

**[04:31] SPEAKER_02:** I I I did choose a There also has parallel in that, because I was still working for the Ethereum Foundation at the time, was that there was like a an enterprise Slack set up there, which was actually started by Vitalik, who afterwards said people kept badgering him about enterprise. That's right. So at some point, he just dumped the ball in a stack in a Slack and run away. That was the that was the technique. So that was not quite the same group. It was a larger group, but slightly different. Luca was part of that. Luca was part of that. Yeah. Also By the way, we should introduce ourselves. Oh, we we should. Like that. Yeah. Hi. I'm Boston Wilson. I'm head of ecosystem at

**[05:12] SPEAKER_03:** Chain James, CEO of block ops. Victor Wong. Creators of.

**[05:16] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I have Victor Wong, chief product officer of block ops. So sorry. Back. But but, yeah, AMMask as well. Do you remember them? Yeah. Oh, yeah. So Taiwan. We should check-in on. I I I haven't thought about AMMAS until

**[05:32] SPEAKER_02:** No. In, like, several years until the beginning. So the interesting thing about what they were doing, so that was, like, some Taiwan bank consortium thing. Yep. But then they they did, like, work on, like, Chinese cryptography and stuff like they've got different requirements. Right? Yeah. And the master chain, which was in Russia, that was like a spare bank thing. Yeah.

**[05:51] SPEAKER_04:** Spare bank was paid for the class sanctioned. I have a question. I could even I could do it Russian. Because you you have a you know, I was not at the at that time. And so it's very interesting for me to you know, what were the hopes and really excitement that you see. You you were part of those early conversation. This was created Yeah. 13, I think, companies. It's like a pretty it was a pretty big event, you know. Yeah. As you mentioned, you know, like, JPMorgan and everything, all those big names coming into the ecosystem. And and what were the hopes and and really, like, the overall, like, atmosphere, you know, when the EA was created, like, eight years ago? Yeah. Well, I mean so I I mean, consensus were very critical as well

**[06:35] SPEAKER_02:** because, you know, they were doing a load of the enterprise, engagement stuff. Right? They it was you've got many, many companies, like, starting to get interested in, hey, you know, we wanna do a pilot. We wanna get involved. So consensus, we're doing a lot of those. So they ended up having a lot of those connections of bringing those those in together. But but, yeah, you you know, over those months, you you really have, like they've got a hell of a lot of momentum.

**[06:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Really, really quick. So the the observation during dev con two when the idea was hatched was basically that at least at the innovation lab level, a lot of the enterprises were just using and forking their own flavor of of Ethereum. They had, like, hacked their own consensus algorithms and security and and Many guests. Many guests, indeed. We learned later that, like, like, a lot of JPMorgan's forum was initially built by Jeff Wilkie.

**[07:28] SPEAKER_02:** He had, like, some kind of And that was not announced at the time of dev con two. That was still behind the scenes for a few months. Yeah. That happened just before the EA started. But but, yeah, you'd you'd you'd got all of this stuff brewing up, I mean, for years earlier. Like, if you think of, like, ERS DB that became Monax, that became Hyperledger Burrow, so that was a permissioned Ethereum client of POC five pre mainnet Mhmm. Yeah. Mid twenty fourteen of sticking in tandem in onto an EVM. So, yeah, like, you know, it was it was all a bit smashed apart,

**[08:02] SPEAKER_03:** but it was like, the time is right for us to work together because we've all got the same needs. Us too. We had our own client, and they got used in a bunch of the consensus consulting engagements at that time, and we started, even then, kinda tuning it for enterprise. And so I guess the idea was like, well, maybe enterprises won't adopt if there isn't a standard Yeah. For all of this new stuff that they need that's above and beyond the base

**[08:25] SPEAKER_01:** Well, I I think clients. I I think it was even beyond that. Like, was just tons of technical work going on in each individual company siloed to get a, like, a Ethereum to do what they wanted to do in a private way. Yeah. So everyone was, like, bolting on these things. And what came out of that those early conversations at at DevCon was, wait. Like, while doing similar things, maybe if we all kind of work together, we could do it faster and get this up faster. And that was all around private ethereum. And I guess also, like, a marriage between,

**[08:52] SPEAKER_02:** like, kind of customers of these things and builders Yeah. Of of saying you've got all these kind of start up y kind of companies that are making Ethereum things, and you've obviously got big demand from really major enterprises to have this, but it's there's but, yeah, on that standardization side, there was, like, nothing, and it's, like, you're all gonna get vendor locked, like, instantly, and it'll all just be arbitrarily different and painful and horrible. So let's try and work out because well, at some point as well with with Quorum, it was kind of like, you know, are we gonna, like, collaboratively do code bases as well? Like, you know, Hyperledger another pause. Was another piece into this is that is that a few months earlier, I've I've spent a bunch of time working on c plus plus relicensing, c plus plus client to get back to Apache two, so it could have been contributed into Hyperledger and we could have, like, gathered around that. That fucked up. So the EA was kind of a backup, I guess. It's like, Ryan, we can't have this grand fusion, but there's enough happening on the Ethereum side that we can at least get all the Ethereum, you know, pieces together and and and then, yeah, I guess it it went quite quickly from, okay. We're not we don't wanna straight compete with with Hyperledger. Having a shared code base also kind of, like, screws up companies.

**[10:04] SPEAKER_03:** Commented. So I think let let me you know, in the spirit of spiciness,

**[10:09] SPEAKER_01:** I think the enterprise users would have preferred a shared code base. Right. And they wanted to commoditize any difference among the startups out of existence so that they could never be vendor locked again. They've Yeah. Had these

**[10:23] SPEAKER_03:** horrific, you know, IBM nightmares, Oracle nightmares over the years, and they're just like, not not this time.

**[10:30] SPEAKER_02:** We're not going to live through this. I mean, also, you know, you have got that market pressure, right, of of quarter coming out Mhmm. Of IBM launching fabric. They were already gonna end up that kind of, you know, nominally open source but quite proprietary. So those were both shooting for release in February 2017. So it's that kind of timeline is like, right, we've gotta get our shit together to be able to do like an Ethereum product thing that can have some hope against IBM, you three.

**[10:58] SPEAKER_03:** I suppose, know DA at that time, I remember one of our prominent enterprise user EEA members said, you know, yeah, they've got a call with, you know, 300 people on it every week trying to sell into the big banks, let's say. Right. And, it's funny that all of the like, Ethereum just survived all of this more or less not paying any attention than, like,

**[11:21] SPEAKER_01:** you know, the this this competition kinda came in Well, I think there was another parallel thing that was happening. At that DevCon, really, we're, like, the kind of enterprise use cases we talk about today. Like, for example, Santander talked about, you know, US dollar on chain, which we all recognize as a stablecoin now. And It didn't make to design that button or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Tokenized

**[11:42] SPEAKER_04:** bank deposit effects. You see, Victor, I think that's a very cool parallel. Like, you set the stage pretty well for, like, you know, where it's coming from. Yeah. And then where it started eight years ago, you mentioned, you know, innovation labs, like, starting to contribute to some codes. We've known, like, the use cases that blockchain and Ethereum can solve for a long time. Right. Oh, yeah. But it's only actually now, and it's been for probably, like, for the last year, that things have been have been really changing drastically. Yeah. And to to take, you know, like, your your words for, like, when you say innovation lab, it's it's not innovation lab anymore looking at at, you know, how they implement blockchain in their Yeah. Ecosystem. It's really like It's actually Executive executive team that say, hey. We wanna plan what is the production, like, how we get it to market. Thankfully, like, they're scared now. So, like, they they better move for us. I I don't know if it's, like, there there is no. There is but there were some interesting some interesting talk, you know, like, when we were at CyBoost, like, SWIFT conference, like, last time. Mentioned that because, like,

**[12:48] SPEAKER_01:** you were just at Cybos, and you're dealing with, like, what we think of as tried by institutional players. And that's, you know, where you have a lot of communication. So, like, what were your impressions about where they're at with that? Because that's the other side that we talk about last year. The digital asset tokenization

**[12:59] SPEAKER_04:** is definitely a hot topic everyone is looking. Because they know it's happening. They wanna be involved, and it's more and now, especially, like, there is less there is less, like, regulatory, you know I'm sure the listeners may not know what Cybos is. Oh, yeah. So Cybos is the is the big SWIFT conference. SWIFT, if you're not familiar, is a it's a messaging system that a lot of 11,000 financial institution around the world it's actually a co op. It's a DAO for a trade buy.

**[13:26] SPEAKER_03:** Kudos to Danielle from ConsenSys who said that to me once. It is a DAO. Although, it's like, can can we buy in now? I feel like a very easy I guess you're best. Restricted. Yeah. That's, you know, like, token gate. Yeah. And the token is having probably a bank license. The the London Metal Exchange is like this too. It's like you you wanna sign up. You gotta, like, buy a bunch of shares and, like Yeah. See. You know, then there's an annual fee and whatnot, and you have to, like, put someone

**[13:52] SPEAKER_04:** there all the time. To join the trade guild. Yes. Yes. I that you gotta do your Yes. Yeah. Exactly. And so set big conference is the it's a big makeup of payments, I I would say, every year. So you have all the big financial institution. Also, like, you know, global financial institution, like, you know, like clearing house settlements. So, you work there, DTCC, etcetera, but also, like, all the banks. And they gather here, and then there is a a lot of conversation. What is very interesting is actually Cybos and Swift is a very, like, kind of standard organization. Because what they do is, like, how we make sure, like, we send messaging across all of us that everyone is sure is gonna understand. And so they used to to have a different, like, kind of messaging format, and recently now, they're migrating to something new, which is high ISO 222 Okay. Which is if you wanna go and dive deeper into this, this is really, like, the how every financial institution want to discuss. They've been working on that spec for a long time, And that's how anything that can touch finance

**[14:50] SPEAKER_03:** from securities to payment, like, they're they have to be qualified. Yeah. I think it's good to explain. So, like, most of finance gets cleared through messaging. Mhmm. And it's like so crypto people are used to, like, putting a transaction in and then it goes everywhere. Yes. It's not really like this. Oh, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Indeed. It's that's that's a very key point. It is that

**[15:08] SPEAKER_04:** the process of a you know, what we what we call delivery versus payment in in traditional finance, it's a it's a pretty complex thing because how you make sure, like, when you deliver the money, the money has been received, that you receive the asset, that everything has been you know? And it's a kind of a lot of dance because you receive message, you you send another one, and it's not like how we used to do where in crypto, we submit, and it's actually a atomic transaction, which is, like, just one thing. And when the transaction is complete, you know it's been executed, it's been delivered, and all the parties that is actually, you know, like, you know, I give you the can. Well, I know I know you've been giving me, like, the money exactly. You know? Like, where actually there is, like, a little bit dense. Well, I put the can here. Like, you see the can that has been moving here. Like, you send the money. And and so the the blockchain here offers such efficiencies because things that were, like, you know, like, the t plus one or t plus two for some of the some of those different exchange. Now you you do it, like, well, depending of what chain you're gonna deploy Yeah. Between a second to even, like, less than that. Yeah. And, also, Swift

**[16:02] SPEAKER_03:** isn't a payments mechanism. Right? No. It's a it's a message another that's another comment. So let's don't let let me, I think, interject with this specific example. I think they're biggest in FX. Right? Yes. So let's say I've got some USD, and I want some euro. And we kinda, like, agree to a USD euro trade. And so we, like I guess we look up whatever the pair is trading at. And I think it's like, I send my side of the trade with some unique ID to Swift, and you do too. And then Swift, like, checks if it matches. It charges, like, $7 either way. If it does match, then it'll, like, tell us that it matched.

**[16:38] SPEAKER_04:** Well, I don't think it's actually exactly this way. It's more a Swift offer type of envelope and a format of envelope and paper and ink that we know how to use and how we're supposed to fill up some forms. Then how we trade those forms between different market participants, it's not much, you know, like, the people like, they're gonna be some, you know, corresponding banking that's gonna be, like, locally taking you cash, and they're gonna everyone is gonna take their share. But it's It's not moving the asset. It's just it's like

**[17:04] SPEAKER_03:** like I have the USD on my bank list. That's big thing. You you got the euro Yeah. On your bank list. Talking to each other in a in a secure

**[17:12] SPEAKER_04:** and compliant way for because it's also, oh, you send that. You have to send, like, some specific messaging for, like, compliance that net. Then I I send another one saying, hey. I checked. There is all the information, and you, you know, you A bunch of, like, local jurisdiction

**[17:26] SPEAKER_02:** specific

**[17:28] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah. It's like a lot of different handshakes, you know, for, like, all the Yeah. I looked at way someone described it. It's like a funny TCP handshake. It's

**[17:36] SPEAKER_01:** it's sort of like what they're doing is tracking the transfers, but no money is actually moving, and then they have a list of IOUs. So, like, when when I send a swift transaction to from, like, let's say I send a $100 to you and France. And I go to my bank. I put in a $100. The money doesn't go anywhere.

**[17:53] SPEAKER_04:** It just Oh, yeah. So the It's like the bank I have to write bank off by the bank. The end of the day Yes. Right. Money. RTGS. They're gonna do, like, the transfer actually. Exactly. That's like a different messaging. Like, the the Yeah. If you research and I'm not a Swift expert, but I have to learn that in the last couple of months, you know, I've done, like, a little bit more, like, deep dive. And it's fascinating because there is such a huge dance, you know, between, you know, like, two transfer of money because you have, you know, the money in your bank account, but then you actually central bank money, then you have this, like, the deposit money. Yeah. So, like, those, like, what you call, like, m zero, m one, m two. And and so all of that is pretty pretty complex. And then we're just talking about payment here. You know, talking about, you know, securities or, like, those other, like, financial instrument that you can exchange also using blockchain in a very efficient way. But that's you know, using stablecoin, you can mix everything super simple. And also one misconception maybe I would love to to mention is, like, the you know what? We we talked about stablecoin and CBDCs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They actually exactly the same thing. It's just in a different context. A CBDC is a stablecoin for central bank. And It's just the issuer. It's just the issuer is not the same as you know, we never gonna really touch, like, CBDCs Yeah. Because this is, like, the the money the the money of banks, if you if you say. But almost, I think, from a technical level, it's very, like, almost like a copy paste of the same contract. It's the mechanism. It's it's not. But we create, like, a whole different language and terminology for that, but they're actually very similar. And funny fact, those CBDCs, they've been doing, you know, like, the I think the baby needed to grow. You know, like, you said, DEFCON two. So it was a two years old kid, Ethereum.

**[19:30] SPEAKER_01:** And we were like, hey. Come in here. You can manage, like, the most

**[19:34] SPEAKER_04:** critical infrastructure of the planet, which is our money and how we do trade, and you can do all of this. And and I think, like, the Ethereum Foundation, I have to give them credit. Like, they yes. For a long time, they were saying, hey, guys. You're not considering the enterprise, everything. But I think they did the right they did the right thing because they protected, you know, like that baby. So it could grow, and we'd become like, you know now we had an age of, you know, it's more mature. It's more than ten years. It's still, like, not even a teenager. Like, the analogy was, like, was human is gonna take some limits. But we're at a point now where we have a technology, and Ethereum is really a capacity to answer all the challenges that are that are, like, facing, you know, that we're blocking with institutions without, which is, you know, well, scalability, privacy, you know, like, composability, and interoperability. You know? Yeah. Like, the the four points that you had in the in the ARC paper for from from from Circle. And now we have this. You know? Like, just last week, you know, z guessing can announce, like, up to 15,000 TPS. Yeah. And there is a new thing that almost every week have going on. So we really like now, like, the technology, when it comes up, say, well, I need to make sure, like, this is private. I need to make sure, like, this is a this is gonna, you know, be, like, be executed in a in a in a seamless way. Also, like, the the decentralization, it's more about the the way they look at it is more like the vendor lock in, I would say, the best analogy, is that you you wanna make sure the infrastructure you rely on is gonna be able to absorb your activity, but also be resilient enough. Yeah. This we still have some work because it's it's definitely and I understand the perspective of institution to deploy on, like, public infrastructure.

**[21:05] SPEAKER_01:** You know, at first, when we keep it, yeah, showed up, like, you know,

**[21:09] SPEAKER_04:** twenty twenty, twenty five years ago, something like that, I think. I mean, I remember I was in my in my college of in like, my engineering college. I was at the board, and we were talking about having a wiki, you know, for doing some articles. And they were, like, those very academic guys that, this is this is unacceptable.

**[21:27] SPEAKER_01:** It's not a you know, all that French accent. And this is unacceptable whenever you are gonna do this.

**[21:34] SPEAKER_04:** This is anyone can put any information. This is not trust. To be clear, you are French. Yeah. You are like Yeah. Yeah. You are allowed to. Yeah. You are allowed to. French too. Yeah. And so and but they were in French. Like, they were very, you know and protecting this and at that time, I said, well, we cannot trust, you know, something that's been built collectively like this. But now we know you have to take a grain of salt, but it's actually much more accepted. You know? Like, that those are, like, reliable source of information and that you can have things that are being built publicly that are actually very resilient.

**[21:59] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, some I'm so sorry. I was just gonna ask, like but, like, there's always this, like, gap between what traditional institutions understand about like, we all understand what's been capable for a really, really long time. But are there still gaps, or do you think that's been closed now? Like, it's maybe grown up fully? Or but, like but even if even, like, when the capability is there, there's still,

**[22:19] SPEAKER_04:** like, a knowledge gap, I think, sometimes. You know what I Let me put it this way. There is about if you combine all the different type of money, a $123,000,000,000,000 of cash around the world. Right. Right. 300 billions are on chain. Right. So the numbers talk for itself. We're very early. So there is people like they they can I think we we still have, like, a lot of work to do in term of education? But by education, I mean, really talking from product perspective. What business problem I can solve for you? How it's gonna be done, what is gonna be the maintenance after, how, like, how you're gonna deal with a very specific use cases. And and so you can have, like, some teams that already, like, have an understanding, you know, like, what you can achieve. Yeah. But we still, like, need to provide, I think, as an ecosystem more structuring, you know, like, who you can work with, well, like, the different vendors, what services they can do, where they can help, what's the type of contract you're gonna have after. And and really giving, like, that overall perspective of, like, a new entrant, you know, in the in the market. And so some of them, they understand very well, and they have already, like, some pretty detailed question, you know, even, like, asking me alright. One, we need to increase, like, the contract size from the 24 to forty forty eight kilobytes, and we have some, you know, like, those those stack overflow issue, like, well known. So Yeah. The stack depth one that was always a problem. And so Yeah. There is some of them. It's this. But but then some other ones in in this this more product, they're gonna ask me, okay.

**[23:45] SPEAKER_01:** What why should I go on an l two? What is the l one? What does it mean? And what about those chain? What are, like, the primitives, you know, explaining, like, well, if you build on any l twos,

**[23:56] SPEAKER_04:** you actually gonna choose maybe one vendor in some way, but you can completely move your asset freely among all the ecosystem. The wallets are gonna be the same. A lot of things are gonna be equivalent that you don't have to rebuild. Mhmm. And and so those are saying, you know, like, you you need to explain. Some of them, maybe people, they're gonna say, well, what what what is what is this? This is just, like, some some scammy or something like that. Think you can find all the layers, but but now people, they also they they see, like, the potential of, like, what you can do with with digital, digital assets, you know, tokenization. Right. And for, like, people were a little bit, like, looking around. I'm very excited to see what's gonna happen in the next six to twelve months because, you know, like, Genius Tech was signed July, you know, or something like this. Clarity act, I think, is still still a bit ongoing. But so now we, the like and and we we kinda also hear that, like, there's really a companies from either direction. So, okay, how how we're gonna implement this? The fintech is also moving, so they're they're they're like, the fact that they're building their l even if they're building their l one, I wish they would do some l twos, and the my door will always be open Right. When when you wanna consider that. There there is a a pretty great tool that can help. But but that's gonna push the market and from a, like, financial institution to really, like, adopting this. There is organization like DTCC, you know, like, the biggest clearinghouse in the world. Like, all the securities in the world basically are being cleared about over there. They released, like, an incredible product, like, four months ago in April, like, the great collateral, where they have, like, a collection of, like, hundreds of spot contract that allows you to clear and to make some margin call and and collateral management from different jurisdiction, which is a fantastic reuse case when you you see I'm not a I'm not a collateral management expert. Mhmm. But I I understand the value, like, how this unlock, you know, like, you you actually have some something that you can take from your your bank in Japan that you're gonna post for something in in US because you have a market event. And this is something you would not even imagine before. And now you can do it, and it's, like, compliant. It's actually, like, it's legal, and then that's gonna unlock so much efficiencies. And so that's in the next, like, twelve months. That's gonna be, like, huge game changer. So it sounds like,

**[25:49] SPEAKER_01:** you know, the lid has been lifted off, and there's a ton of demand. But it's like walking down the path to supply that demand. That's the part that people are figuring out. Right? Like, it it would is that right? Like, is that how Very I think the

**[25:59] SPEAKER_04:** it's such a very transformative technology for how those business operate. There is also how I'm gonna make money. Okay.

**[26:07] SPEAKER_03:** So there's a fear element to it. Right? Like, go ahead. At least I It's it's it's like, where well, now I can have, like, chat. Yeah. Like Yeah. I mean I'm a PSP provider. Like Let let me ask you this. So in the early days, it felt like there was a focus on more like back office use cases, like like, yeah. How do I move the collateral from, like, my Japan regional branch to my, you know, whatever. Business process improvement. Business process improvements. I felt that there's eventually became a I think I think this started, like, 2020, 2021, a shift for big corporations wanting top line use cases. Like, you know, like Nike was the first to, like, sell a ton of NFTs. And then you're seeing like, I think, like, the digital assets treasuries are a kind of genius way for a token to like, like, the company doesn't have to IPO. But, like, there could be a token, and there can be something that's kinda provides the traditional protections of equity that's publicly traded. And and then you didn't you could just leave this part sort of where it was, and somehow there's kinda like a merger going on. And and, you know, this is a creating good top line revenue for investment banks and, you know, etcetera, etcetera. So, like, is your is your sense that people want the efficiency to compete, or, like, are they starting to think about it as, like, a new revenue line or, you know, like, a transformed revenue line or something?

**[27:38] SPEAKER_04:** Well, that's that's a billion trillion dollar question right there. I I don't have, like, the answer. What I could say is I see I see how I I think if you look at, you know, operational optimization, it's more than that. If you capital flow more seamlessly, you make more money in the financials. Some flow. So the the the the more you have a flow of your money easy, the more you're gonna be able to to make some to make some because you're gonna unlock, you know, some some some capital improvement. Yet, I think and from, like, conversation I've seen and and where where, like, the still don't have, like, the golden doo, say, hey. That's gonna remix a little bit of, like, all the different people and intermediaries and people working. Because if you if you suddenly have something that is being done a much, much more efficient way, well, some different intermediates, then they might have, like, to rethink of where the the way of doing their business. This is not gonna happen from one day to another. What I can say is that because we're gonna have those those new form of, like, working with digital assets, that's gonna more, like, be a golden era for, like, opportunities to build, like, to build pretty fantastic product. And the people that understand pretty well the ethos of the e like, the ECR ecosystem and also, like, blockchain in general, and, like, some operation in traditional finance and be able to bridge those two, you you're gonna be able to bring, like, some amazing amazing product. And that's what we see a little bit more with convergence, you know, of a a is that doing, like, a collateral product with Horizon Yeah. And and and and knocking, you know, like, you you have, like, figure, like, you have a spike or you have some some of, like how as as we're gonna have, like, now some asset that are on chain that maybe you can loan and you can collateralize and you can borrow money and you can have some liquid liquidity from in front of those assets while being the actual like, and also, like, I wanna stress, like, we do we say RWAs, RWAs, RWAs. But there is a lot of we need probably to find some new language because there is You know how I feel about that. I think the RWA term is so broad. We yeah. We we need this can be this can be a RWA. You know? It does. And and and so there is all of The US, but most of them, they actually kind of elaborate IOUs, you know what? And not all, like and now we're moving towards more and more having some standards and, like, things like like the it's the legal 10, like Yeah. You want the native issue. It's a scam. The token is the is the is the is the legal claim to the asset. Yes. Yeah. And that's when this happens and when, like, focusing on that, that's gonna unlock some pretty incredible things because then it's the the, like, the and you connect this with DeFi. Maybe we some you you're gonna always need some form of AML, KYC, and everything, like like the the the the DeFi, like, the, Yeah. Yeah. There's none for the last year. It's they're probably gonna have, like, two of those. But once you connect this, that's I think that's gonna be pretty incredible. But how do the institutions feel about, like obviously, as the head of the EEA,

**[29:53] SPEAKER_01:** and you feel strongly about Ethereum too. Right? Like, the Ethereum ecosystem broadly of L1's multiples. Like, how do they feel about that? Do they see any other you know, like, we know that Ripple has tried to attract that interest for a really long time. Like, are they kind of sold on Ethereum at this point, or are they looking are they still kind needing to be convinced? I've

**[30:12] SPEAKER_04:** heard, like, several executive at presentation at Cycle saying, hey. You know, like, Ethereum is the standard. You know? EVM is the standard. This is the the ecosystem. Having said that and as, you know, decision makers, they also wanna make sure, like, they keep the door open and not not being locked, they they move progressively. You know, 60% of the stablecoin issuance and is on the CRM. I think probably 85 to 90% of all the WA's, it's it's the same. Some similar statistics about DeFi activities. That's, you know, like, electric capital, like Yeah. You can see a graph, like, three times more like that. And then you also ecosystem in terms of, like, builders and everything. So that's the most tragic regions and an advanced, you know, ecosystem in terms of research and on every every facet. And so that's they they know. They recognize. But it doesn't mean that we we need to keep educating, to keep, like Right. You know, working with the EF for instance. Like, they've been incredible work for the last few months of really, like, packaging the message in a in a better way that can be more digestible. But there's more, some work for instance, like, you know, like, the protocol team, they're already addressing so many of the of the fear, like, can have some some different, like, you know, digital asset manager in financial institution. But how we bring that message to the right people, package it in a way that it's easy to understand, that's some that's some of the of the work that is being done as we speak, and I and that's gonna really help, you know, like, continuing solidifying, you know, like, dominance position. But to also answer your question, like, some of those institutions, they say, hey. We wanna be multichain. We wanna look at everything, which I think it's it's absolutely fair, and I would do the same if I were in their shoe. So, okay. Well, we we they have some different assessment, you know, criteria, and they say, well, we're gonna take this chain, this chain, this chain, this chain, and and then we'll see.

**[32:05] SPEAKER_02:** I mean go back to Beyond beyond EVM, I mean, you've obviously got competition between Ethereum and other EVM Mhmm. Flavors. What what what is the competition outside of that? Because I know there's you know, you've obviously got competition within that.

**[32:19] SPEAKER_03:** But Yeah. What do you hear institutions

**[32:22] SPEAKER_02:** doing non EVM things as well?

**[32:25] SPEAKER_03:** Just like hands around. I don't know what they're using. Like, do institutions use a lot at all? Well, I know, but it does DA still have its own, like, big proprietary ish stack? It's not proprietary anymore, but it's Substance. Yeah.

**[32:40] SPEAKER_02:** Well Hedera. Is anyone using Hedera?

**[32:45] SPEAKER_04:** Kenton What do hear? Competitive.

**[32:48] SPEAKER_03:** I got it. Kenton

**[32:51] SPEAKER_04:** is probably the one the most advanced in term of, like, you know, connection with the the rest of the ecosystem. Mhmm. And I would say, like, not the rest, but the the traditional finance. They have they have, like, a way structure, though it's it's it's something I still don't completely understand. Like, you you can be validators, have some tokens that they're gonna exchange on some private market and so some form of revenue. And and then they have already, like, that it's a it's a it's a consortium. You know? Like, it's a it's a quorum p two, I would say. And and they they've been able to bring in into they're gonna burn us, like, a lot of the different financial institution. So but then once again and if you ask me, and I'm I'm biased, of course, but this is a this is an ecosystem. Like, he has a Canton code. He's open source and everything. But, well, you're still building on a technology that is not not super, like, very like, there's not a lot of people. You know? Like, when are you gonna be, like, the the the CIO of a company and you need to have some maintenance or something? Or it's gonna be, what, like, 20 guys in in a country that can do this some work on this? And so that that that that's the way I look at this. But, like, the I think, like, Solana, I'm not sure who's the institution. I don't hear anything institutional

**[34:12] SPEAKER_03:** from Solana, but it seems popular nonetheless.

**[34:16] SPEAKER_01:** Oddly enough, like, Ripple has been trying to do this for a long time, but I don't hear them brought up in the conversation

**[34:25] SPEAKER_02:** that much in Nobody ever used Ripple.

**[34:28] SPEAKER_04:** I I've been in blockchain Spice a day. Not as long as you guys, but and and it's really since 2019. And I spent, like, almost four years at ChainSafe. You know, very authentic, like, you know, builders, crypto native protocol development. And I I've I've been to conferences, you know, with the engineers, and I asked them in a very candid way. Said, have you ever built on a on on a on a report on a on some of their and and I had conversation with the engineers at ChainSafe. And we had some calls, we had some conversation in the Slack, I remember, and no one really came up with some very

**[34:59] SPEAKER_02:** Smart. It just got an infinite war chest for marketing Well and lobbying.

**[35:03] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, at one point, one of the side voices I went to years and years ago. Right? Ripple was supposed to have a huge booth and, know, like, I guess, Swift decided, oh, they're too much of a competitor, so they kicked them out.

**[35:16] SPEAKER_03:** And this was They were calling themselves the swift killer Right. For a while.

**[35:20] SPEAKER_01:** They decided like, Ripple decided, you know what? We're just gonna run our own conference in parallel with sidebars. They put on parallel conference Yeah. And Vitalik was speaking at their conference. And I remember At the ripple one? At the ripple one. And I remember Oh, you nearly interned that. They they had buses in front of Cypos contact, like, taking you to where their new conference was. And I remember, like, seeing Vitalik, like, ran across, like, looking for this conference because, like, it was in this new place and, like, we're all transferred. I remember, like, waving him, over here, Vitalik. Over there. Like, it's alright. It's it's Koda?

**[35:48] SPEAKER_02:** People still using Corda? Archery?

**[35:51] SPEAKER_04:** Right? Like, it's being bought out by Celina. Corda is Celina. I don't think they're Really?

**[35:57] SPEAKER_01:** I I don't think they would they

**[36:00] SPEAKER_02:** would actually in those terms. I think it's a partnership, a collaboration. Yeah. Yes. They were not absolute absolutely, they weren't bought by.

**[36:08] SPEAKER_01:** Not not far enough. But yes. But I mean, I I will say Are you using fabric still?

**[36:14] SPEAKER_04:** Fabric? Anyone? Well, yes. Fabric. Behind behind the the scene, like, the fabric is still, like, very present. You know, I think central banks and and those those type of more very close environment, you know, even I I'm not sure. BIS, we know bank of in, like, international settlement, which is a you know, for those who don't know, it's, 40 different international bank that's worked together to to optimize, I would say, like, the collaboration and and and and exchange. But they had, like, a project Agora that they started a couple of, like, months ago. Yeah. Those are, like, institution where it takes, like, much longer time, I think, to They're starting in new projects. That's not the same. The same Agora. But I would imagine, like, maybe they were having some POCs before. I know some few central banks, they run, you know, like, using fabric.

**[36:59] SPEAKER_02:** You know, like the It's probably like the hyper ledger and fabric, you know, like Probably like the asbestos, isn't it? It's just gonna take years to sort of chat out. You

**[37:08] SPEAKER_01:** need people in suits to, like Yeah. I I will say, I I think we're almost at forty five minutes. Everyone's been very generous with this time. Think we asked. Do you have any final thoughts that you wanna share

**[37:16] SPEAKER_04:** with on the fabric. I know, like, IBM is working on a bridge between fabric to main to it's called fabric x k. To ethereum.

**[37:25] SPEAKER_02:** So Well can see that. Right? Well, one of their the the the big sell at New York Blockchain Week in 2018 was their was their EVM integration. Right. They did the

**[37:34] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. They did the channel or something. It was

**[37:36] SPEAKER_02:** dot j s or whatever. That that they did do this bunching together, and that was using Burrow. Right? Because you've got the Burrow. Burrow went into Hyperledger before before Besu. Mhmm. And that was the continuation of that. ErisDB, Bonax, on you went. Was never made net compatible, though. But there was that go EVM within Hyperledger under the same licensing so they could they could wham those together. And, I mean, that's that's that's seven years ago. So, yeah, I'm sure that they they they need to have an even better EVM story these days. So if to answer your question and and and, like, EVM and is really the standard as

**[38:09] SPEAKER_04:** everyone that's that's what they're saying. You know? Like, you you go through, like, some different stages. You have, like, the chief innovation officer of, like, Swift and and some some different institutes. Understand that. They're like, that's gonna be understanding. That's that's that's what they say. I was really everywhere I went on all those different panels, you know, we had a panel at 08:30 on, like, permission less various private Yeah. Network. Mhmm. It was hosted by by Applied Blockchain, a member of the EA. There was, like, Citibank, Linux Foundation, decentralized trust, UBX, and and and me. And it was the we were full. There were people standing up, and and there was, you know, the swift innovation officers. Some other banks that came to talk to us. So people, they they they understand. Ethereum is definitely seen as, like, the standard and the place where you wanna build because that's where you have access to the most liquidity, the most users, the most vibrant DeFi ecosystem Mhmm. Which is something that is getting closer, I think, and say, well, maybe there is some way to make some money here. I don't know exactly how, but there is some there is some there is some potential. So I think the future is very bright for for us. And I think that ties very nicely back to the start of the conversation and about the thoughts of the EA and so on was

**[39:04] SPEAKER_02:** something that Jeremy Miller said in the opening speech on the opening day was think of this as being like a router, an Internet intranet. There's no reason why suitably modular code bases shouldn't serve all of these code all of these use cases, public and private. And what we did not want to happen, and I remember being driven very much by this, was saying, let's not have arbitrarily different code bases for these different things because we can't be asked having that conversation and making the effort to try and bridge those worlds. And that was really coming from that fabric and core to competition of of these big enterprises basically saw being told, you Ethereum guys have got to get your stuff together or we're gonna get mandated to use this other stuff, and it doesn't matter what you want. It's like the spending all have been spent, and it's and it's never coming back. So I think it's from to my mind, it's, like, really superb to see where we are. It's like, that's what we were thinking. That was kind of the goal, right, is that this can be a standard for everything and, yeah, things were, like, immature and maybe, you know, you needed to be doing consortium chains and you needed to take these baby steps on the way and wait for the tech to catch up. But really, it's like

**[39:54] SPEAKER_04:** this can be the answer for everything. So Yeah. And I think that's where we are. And we're talking more and more, you know, like, Ethereum Foundation has has done an incredible job. They have, like, an enterprise team also like that in conversation with everyone, and they can have like, they have access to all the different leaders, and this has been very pretty fantastic. And so the more we discuss about this and say, hey. You know, there is no CEO of Ethereum. This is not a private company. There's no CEO of Internet, you know, has that. Yeah. That's what was saying. They always use Linux. Right? So Yeah. That's that that's something that is, like, catching up more and more. And the more, you know, we're going that's also, like, the mission that what we do at EA, know, like, going to have this conversation, doing events, like, bringing some people together from, like, a few events that we do when we try to remix, like, DeFi, traditional finance institution, like pure Ethereum players, and have all those people talking together. That's how we make that, you know, moving forward. Well, on that note, I think, we'll wrap up. But where can people find more about you and EEA in general? It the website of, we are present on all the social media. Like, the website is, like, entandeastalliance.org. We have the same handle, like, on Twitter, on LinkedIn. I'm also on LinkedIn and in Twitter and and try to post, you know, like, often some few articles and some insights. And there's some more work that I'm gonna put, like, together in a couple of weeks around RWAs and everything. And and also always looking for some some, like, large institution that would like to collaborate on some writing pieces. Yep. So we can really put some, like, soft leadership and and helping, you know, explaining what's what's being done. Like and I think bridging, you know, like, Eastern world with the traditional finance also, like, something that we're pretty excited to do in a, you know, couple of weeks. Yeah. That's awesome. We'll be also in Singapore Fintech Week next month, in DEFCON in Argentina,

**[40:56] SPEAKER_02:** and we'll be also in Abu Dhabi for finance week. Cool. And, Bob, where can people find you in? So, yeah, I'm on Twitter. Same as my name, bob summer wheel with a w I l l, not ville, not sommelwill.

**[41:09] SPEAKER_01:** And Not the German spelling. No. Yeah. Karen?

**[41:13] SPEAKER_03:** K James Logan on X, YouTube, etcetera.

**[41:17] SPEAKER_01:** And you can find me on x at vic, v I c, the number four, w o n g. Thank you for joining us for our first in person roundtable. Thanks again. It's awesome. It's awesome. Coming. Take care.

**[41:28] SPEAKER_04:** That's pretty cool to be in a bush weekend.