**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, I think we are live. Let's just give a minute for people to join. Alrighty. So I looked at the background noise reduction. It says not supported in this browser. I'm using Firefox. Perhaps it has to be Chrome. Yes. Safari. Yeah, Safari has a huge amount just because of the iPhone.

**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** You must pick from the two available choices. Is it called Edge still? Yes. Nobody uses Edge. Nobody uses it. I bet you it's a lot. Hold on. I seem to remember seeing, and I can't remember it was on Edge or Bing or probably both. But the most searched thing was how to install Chrome. That's funny. Try though. They might. Wow. Chrome just continues to rise in market share. It's gone from 66% roughly about a year ago to 72% now worldwide. Safari is trending down. Yeah, they're just pretty tiny. Wow. Opera is still around. That's amazing.

**[00:01] SPEAKER_02:** They all use Chromium though. Okay, fair enough. Oddly, my son uses Opera. Okay, we are live now on Twitter. Okay, so should we, should we wait another minute or should we just start? Well, maybe we should do our intros because we. Hi everyone. Welcome to our week show. If you don't know, we are all part of the Strato Mercado project that is a layer 1 EVM compatible blockchain focused on bringing Defi to the masses. Now we, the three of us here, are all longtime builders and all Ethereum OGs. I'm Victor Wong. Vic.

**[00:02] SPEAKER_01:** I don't know if you can describe yourself as an OG. I think someone else has to describe. Someone else to bestow that. Okay, you two. No, you. Can we say it to each other? Can we say you are an OG? But yeah, I said that as a. But yeah, I said that as a collection in a circle. You can tell Bob. Bob's an OG. Bob can tell me. I can tell you.

**[00:03] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. So we've been building since the launch of Ethereum and continue to follow this journey. So you'll get hopefully no shilling and a lot of good historical context about what we're going to talk about today. Today we are going to talk about the highlights from Token 2049 and was it more boring or more crazy in terms of the blockchain world? Joining me is Bob Summerwell. Bob, you want to do a quick intro?

**[00:04] SPEAKER_02:** Hi there, I'm Bob Summerwell. We are all. We're not old, we're all very experienced. But yes, I'm head of ecosystem. Yeah. And Karen, of course. Yeah, I am also experienced. You know, not as long as you can be in the space, but it's starting to feel like it. Right. Like we've really been around for some time. But yes, I'm.

**[00:05] SPEAKER_00:** I. I will bestow the OG title on you, Karen. So we could, I mean, I mean, anyone that's been around since before the launch of Ethereum and was part of. Part of it, I think, you know, that would be. We can, we can claim that title. So I will say that I was not at. In Singapore. I kind of played hooky with Kieran's approval. You know, international travel is brutal, but Bob and Kieran were there. And why? To get your kind of impressions. What do you think? Think the big themes this year were at Token 2049.

**[00:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Bunch of big topics. One thing that was notable is that it felt like meme coins had almost completely vanished. And there was a lot of that the previous year. And Can I pour one out for the meme coins? Basically, in meme coins defense, I'm actually kind of pro meme coin. The problem is just the time horizon that people. People want to make money in, like, seconds. Like, I think if a meme around a concept, if it can kind of grow organically for some period of time is. Is like, great.

**[00:07] SPEAKER_02:** But. But yeah, it's just the impatience and nihilism seems to increase with each cycle. But maybe, maybe not this one. So conference felt kind of less scammy in general. And a lot of digital asset treasury talk, I think we can go into that as we go. A lot of stablecoin talk, you know, a lot of, you know, merger with trad fi sort of feel. I also think something has changed. And I can't tell, like, if it's just that we're all being bombarded with the same content or something's qualitatively different about the world. Where like a year ago it felt like the crypto was sort of peripheral to the problems with the world. And now it feels like it's like a big part of the solution. It's very strange. And everyone sort of acknowledges that, you know, like, Donald Trump Jr. Donald Trump Jr. Was there. Like, that's a big changeover where you just feel, you know, like some. Some weeks ago, like, Putin made his comments about, like, how the United States was trying to use stable coins to export American inflation, which is probably true, but it's like that's a big turnaround. It's like a from the top policy as opposed to just. And you felt that at the conference as well.

**[00:08] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I mean that, that wasn't new on the, on the bitcoin conference side. So I was in Nashville 2014 and Vegas. Sorry, 2014, 2020, 2024 and then, and then this July in Vegas. So in Nashville last year you had Trump RFK Jr then this year you had both Trump boys. Ben Jr and Eric were both there and oh my goodness, I'm forgetting his name from the UK. It will come to me in a second. But yeah, and, and also, you know, like tons of other Congress people and state level stuff like that's been a real theme well in advance on the bitcoin side. I mean, I guess essentially because you've just already got that monetary store of value use case. It's like getting into these boring ETF, you know, treasury company, government level adoption sort of stuff that. That's happened earlier than on the bitcoin side than more generally. But yeah, also I mean obviously like the Trumps have got their world Liberty nonsense going on and gotta be pumping that one.

**[00:09] SPEAKER_00:** Well, actually that's a good transition. So you know, we couldn't. Internally we were trying to decide whether the conference was more boring or more crazy than usual. You kind of have talked about the boring elements, I guess, you know, more institutional. And I'm curious like, you know, since this is in Singapore, a very global conference. Like what countries outside the US Seem to be moving in this direction? You know, like obviously the US has been a holdout for a really long time, but you know, how are things getting boring and how are things getting more global?

**[00:10] SPEAKER_01:** Bob, I want to remind you not to criticize our friends in, in Washington, at least in a public forum, supporters of the. So the. Yeah, so. So it's an interesting feel the, the conference, I would say it obviously represented people who are close by pretty well, but also, you know, some, a good number of people in from let's say UAE, some Europe. Plenty of Americans who did the really long trip. Lots, lots of Americans I would say. And yeah, I think it's a strange. The, the institutional feeling was much stronger than the prior year and it's, it's not that much time to have passed. Like there were many, you know, the stablecoin. Stablecoins have this institutional feel to them. Even you know, at the beginning they, they didn't. And it is funny to watch. Like, you know, I see See these announcements, like, you know, tether's coming to the US and we've, you know, set up a nice regulatory framework that, you know, they can, they can work with. And I went to a side event and met some of the Tether people. It's also just funny to see them, you know, in the, in the media, like buying sports teams and know all of that. Like at a certain point you get big enough, you become institutional.

**[00:11] SPEAKER_00:** Right, Right. But yeah, I think, you know, the, it, it even last year it felt like blockchain technology at the, maybe at the lower levels of the stack disproportionately gets created in the broader West. Right. And maybe that with the exception of some of the exchanges and such, and it gets used outside the west more. So you see stablecoin balances, yes, they're big in the US but it's kind of really a global story. Tether in particular being like much larger than Circle. Obviously. I think both of them, you know, Tether purports not to serve the US I'm sure there's plenty of US USDT holders. Circle maybe preferencing the US but probably covers global as well. It's a. Yeah. So the, I think it's a funny feeling in which the part the people at the conference are a little more like users than builders. And there's also just, I mean the feel token is a little like someone described it to me, kind of like Comic Con. And I thought that was actually very apt. Like there's people in funny. Like, you know, they're like astronauts. You could take yourself as an astronaut with Justin sun pictures. I think Bob has one and like lots of like shiny outfits. And I think the world's tallest man was there sadly in a wheelchair. I think he has a hard time standing. Yes. For at least for long periods of time. It was like you saw this like horse in a wheelchair. I was like, no, that's a human. Like, you know, like, like a really large, I don't know, 86 or 7:10 or so. Like a really large human being.

**[00:12] SPEAKER_00:** Well, he, he probably has to be in a wheelchair just so he doesn't bump his head on every door frame that is out there. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so, you know, the, the mix definitely big global conference. I think they usually get the number you hear is like 20 ish thousand people coming from hubs. You know, again, a lot of UAE. Some of the European hubs and big US Contingents. Very long flight for us. But yeah, it was, it Was great. You know, Singapore also just a great place to, to hang out and, and pretty good representation of the global scene, if you will. There's also a. I don't know if this perfectly ties into the global amount. There's the feeling that the same people are manning the booths last year. This year I've also heard, very expensive conference. But the companies have in many cases changed except for like the very big ones, you know, the headliners, people get invited to the stage, etc, a lot of turnover and who was represented at the conference. So you know, in some ways being a media company is one of the better ways to, you know, survive cycles in, in crypto, you know, just someone will pay that big conference figure. Yeah.

**[00:13] SPEAKER_00:** And it seems those fees are getting bigger and bigger too. Right. It's just very, very. Cool garbage. So. Yeah. And we don't want to keep you too long. Obviously you got important things to do around the house. Bob, what do you think about the global and the boring part of it?

**[00:14] SPEAKER_02:** So, yeah, I mean, I guess just something else to say that is I have been to a lot of conferences I've never seen so somewhere with so much floor space of expo halls just on and on and on, like, honestly like city blocks, many, many city blocks worth of stuff, you know, and then you, you go, all right, yeah, there's another whole floor of this. Yeah, yeah, it's twice as much as you thought. Even bigger than DEFCON in Thailand last year. Because I remember looking, you know, getting my step tracker and like seeing like, oh man, I 15,000 steps in the conference center.

**[00:15] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I think part of it, and maybe one of the reasons as builders we find it boring, is that effectively there are no tech innovations really that are driving this. Right. It's really, it's really about people who already have a bunch of money pouring more money into it, you know.

**[00:16] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think it's a strange thing in which like the meme coins ended to some degree with the US Elections and like, I feel like Libra was really the end, you know, in which, you know, the, a coin associated with a public official did pretty badly for. The, the people involved.

**[00:17] SPEAKER_02:** But. The, the people involved. There's a hot tour coin as well, wasn't there?

**[00:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think that was before though. I feel like that was not the end. But, but yes, it's sort of, you know, I think they've kind of peaked Pump funds still seems to be doing lots and lots of launches in revenue. But I just, no one's really talking that much about it anymore. And we're getting back to something like you either have to have tech or now you have to have revenue. And it's gotten, you know, almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are, you know, I, I something I might want to talk about at more length another time. I keep seeing criticism of say, Unis Swap because they generate a lot of fees, but a lot of those fees go directly to the lab company and they don't go to the protocol or and they have to turn the protocol fees on and would then start theoretically buying back the token. Whereas folks like Hyper Liquid, there's no lab skim and there are pretty big buybacks going on and the token price has gone up. And you know, people argue Uniswap has a kind of conflict of interest there. But anyway, to the point being like suddenly it all became about like revenue. US dollar denominated yields, like how to do not quite a SPAC like mo. Most of these treasury companies are an existing public traded publicly traded company. And there's, you know, maybe not a formal takeover with a change of control or but usually like in an injection of capital that the company's doing something else right now and then it starts digital asset treasury operations. You know, like there was a panel, Tom Lee gave a lot of like numbers on how big his digital asset treasury company is, what chunk of eth it holds, you know, now what the trend is, all that sort of thing. And they've, I guess Michael Sailor kind of pioneered. I don't know if he was there. I don't think he was some of the financial engineering that kind of creatively let him acquire as much bitcoin as possible. And all these folks are then kind of in the, I would argue like a part of the tradfi mindset. People make complicated products that sort of favor the house in a sense. So that no matter what, like the client has an idea, but the institution does okay. Right. And some analog of that is going on. People are purchasing a lot of the time you would just want to hold tokens directly as opposed to invest in a digital assets Treasury, I guess. I think the digital asset treasuries may be better than the ETFs. The ETFs promise to do nothing and charge a fee where the digital asset treasuries don't really charge a fee and maybe do something creative. So, you know, it's like it's the entrance of a new venue of financial engineering. But I also think they're kind of brilliant in the following sense. It's a tremendous pain to be a public traded, say US company. It's expensive, there's a lot of compliance burden. So on tokens are out there. They get liquidity in some ways. You might want liquidity from the US public equity markets for your token. You could do this by ipoing a company like Coinbase is sort of a vehicle for that. But then you've got to like report on the extremely complicated, no doubt operations of Coinbase and it's whatever thousand employees and you know, all that. Or you could just have a thing, buy the token and then you never have to IPO the labs company and you can kind of just get all of the capital without the much heavier reporting burden of being a publicly traded actual company. And this is like kind of genius. Like the, it's a great way to bring in more kind of bigger, more boring, more conservative capital while not changing the premise that much. So. So yeah, it's gotten, you know, almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are, you know, I, I something I might want to talk about at more length another time.

**[00:19] SPEAKER_00:** By the way, we have a comment from Sheba who says he loves your take on meme ecosystems. Yeah, you know, not surprisingly has their own meme ecosystem. You gotta hold all the memes. That's the key. Shout out to Yoshima. Bob. So what do you think about, you know, Treasuries and stablecoins?

**[00:20] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean I, you know, I guess this is all sort of maturity and it's, it's a strange kind of feeling, you know, looking back on all of our joint experience sort of on enterprise Ethereum efforts kicking off in 2016, 2017, and really the thought there that all of these public and private use cases could all be met by suitably modular code bases and thinking EVMs. And here we are, You've got stripe announcing Tempo and having, you know, a consortium of, of companies doing, doing that kind of payments, you know, set up. And then you've got, you know, NASDAQ announcing, you know, equities on chain again with a, with a Bazoo derivative. And then you've got, you know, Base and, and Coinbase. And, you know, all of these things are happening in a very similar kind of form to what we were shooting for all that time back. And that's, you know, while these things are kind of a bit boring, it is also quite amazing that we've got to that place that these very conservative incumbents have, have caught up without thinking, you know. Yeah, it's, it's pretty amazing.

**[00:21] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I think part of it, and maybe one of the reasons as builders we find it boring, is that effectively there are no tech innovations really that are driving this. Right. It's really, it's really about people who already have a bunch of money pouring more money into it, you know.

**[00:22] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think it's a strange thing in which like the meme coins ended to some degree with the US Elections and like, I feel like Libra was really the end, you know, in which, you know, the, a coin associated with a public official did pretty badly for. The, the people involved. Excuse me.

**[00:23] SPEAKER_00:** And sorry, I, I thought you were talking about the Facebook Libra.

**[00:24] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, no, no. Yeah, the, the melee associated. No, no, no. Yeah, I think that was before though. I feel like that was not the end. But, but yes, it's sort of, you know, I think they've kind of peaked Pump funds still seems to be doing lots and lots of launches in revenue. But I just, no one's really talking that much about it anymore. And we're getting back to something like you either have to have tech or now you have to have revenue. And it's gotten, you know, almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are, you know, I, I something I might want to talk about at more length another time. I keep seeing criticism of say, Unis Swap because they generate a lot of fees, but a lot of those fees go directly to the lab company and they don't go to the protocol or and they have to turn the protocol fees on and would then start theoretically buying back the token. Whereas folks like Hyper Liquid, there's no lab skim and there are pretty big buybacks going on and the token price has gone up. And you know, people argue Uniswap has a kind of conflict of interest there. But anyway, to the point being like suddenly it all became about like revenue. US dollar denominated yields, like how to do not quite a SPAC like mo. Most of these treasury companies are an existing public traded publicly traded company. And there's, you know, maybe not a formal takeover with a change of control or but usually like in an injection of capital that the company's doing something else right now and then it starts digital asset treasury operations. You know, like there was a panel, Tom Lee gave a lot of like numbers on how big his digital asset treasury company is, what chunk of eth it holds, you know, now what the trend is, all that sort of thing. And they've, I guess Michael Sailor kind of pioneered. I don't know if he was there. I don't think he was some of the financial engineering that kind of creatively let him acquire as much bitcoin as possible. And all these folks are then kind of in the, I would argue like a part of the tradfi mindset. People make complicated products that sort of favor the house in a sense. So that no matter what, like the client has an idea, but the institution does okay. Right. And some analog of that is going on. People are purchasing a lot of the time you would just want to hold tokens directly as opposed to invest in a digital assets Treasury, I guess. I think the digital asset treasuries may be better than the ETFs. The ETFs promise to do nothing and charge a fee where the digital asset treasuries don't really charge a fee and maybe do something creative. So, you know, it's like it's the entrance of a new venue of financial engineering. But I also think they're kind of brilliant in the following sense. It's a tremendous pain to be a public traded, say US company. It's expensive, there's a lot of compliance burden. So on tokens are out there. They get liquidity in some ways. You might want liquidity from the US public equity markets for your token. You could do this by ipoing a company like Coinbase is sort of a vehicle for that. But then you've got to like report on the extremely complicated, no doubt operations of Coinbase and it's whatever thousand employees and you know, all that. Or you could just have a thing, buy the token and then you never have to IPO the labs company and you can kind of just get all of the capital without the much heavier reporting burden of being a publicly traded actual company. And this is like kind of genius. Like the, it's a great way to bring in more kind of bigger, more boring, more conservative capital while not changing the premise that much. So. So yeah, it's gotten, you know, almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are, you know, I, I something I might want to talk about at more length another time.

**[00:25] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And one question, like, are we going to devconnect? I know me and Bob have already bought our tickets. Karen, you're the hodoc. Can I get a commitment?

**[00:26] SPEAKER_01:** I'm still a problem. 1. I've never been to Argentina. I really do want to go but.

**[00:27] SPEAKER_00:** I really want to see what's going on. Yeah, I haven't been to South America and I really want to see what's happening in the crypto world over there because you hear a lot about it. Obviously there are big exchanges and big projects there, so I'm just really curious to find out.

**[00:28] SPEAKER_01:** Vitalik said he's more likely to get recognized in Buenos Aires than in the U.S. say.

**[00:29] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, well. And so if you like this content, please join us. Every week we have this at the same time on Follow us on Twitter at Strato Mercada with an A and join our telegram community. Bob, if they want to hear more from you, where can they find you?

**[00:30] SPEAKER_02:** Yep. So I'm just Bob Simmerwil. Same as my name on on Twitter.

**[00:31] SPEAKER_00:** And Karen, where can people find you?

**[00:32] SPEAKER_01:** K James Lubin, so shortened but, but my name also on on Twitter slash.

**[00:33] SPEAKER_00:** X, and you can find me at Vic for Wong on Twitter. Bob and Kieran have both shamed me publicly because I have so few followers, even though it was an early adopter. So please, please connect to me. Like, love to hear from you.

**[00:34] SPEAKER_02:** What? What's the four about? What? What's the Vic four?

**[00:35] SPEAKER_00:** So four is a. Four is a number that no Chinese person likes because it sounds suspiciously like death. So it's an. You know, back in the world of eight character usernames, I could always get Vic for one, because having an Asian name with the number 44 in it, like, pretty much guaranteed that I could get it.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_01:** Always doing things the wrong way.

**[00:37] SPEAKER_00:** Exactly. I never heard that joke before. Okay, thank you, everyone. See you again next week. Take care.

**[00:38] SPEAKER_02:** Cheers, guys.